
1:1	From the burning bull of Cynthia's lamp, pouring out the darts of boiling rays, I went to the shady hiding-places of the forest, exploring the gentle grace of Favonius.
1:2	In the middle of the summer day, Jupiter reclining under a leafy tree, I saw the form of Pythagoras standing: God knows, I do not know whether in the body.
1:3	I look at the very form of Pythagoras, inscribed with a scheme of various arts. Whether this revelation is outside the body, or whether it is in the body, God knows, I do not know.
1:4	In front flashed the astrological art; the series of teeth governs grammatically; rhetoric is more beautiful in the language; the shocked logic boils on the lips.
1:5	Hence the social arithmetic of the digits; in the hollow music plays the artery; geometry stands pale in the eyes; each of the arts is in its own right.
1:6	It is before the reason of all ethics; mechanical skills are written on the back; who, having explained the whole body as a code, laid out the flight, and said (Look.)
1:7	The hand revealed the secrets of the right hand; and when I had looked, and began to read, I found it written in brown characters: I am the leader before you, and you follow me.
1:8	The one I began to follow will soon pass by; and, having said this, he hastened to the other land. Together we unfolded, which I had seen many things. Among the prodigies I had ennobled the people.
1:9	While I wondered, doubting what these trains were, passing the lights through each front, I saw the names of each one inscribed, as if on flint or a leaden plate.
1:10	This is Priscianus giving blows with his palms; it is Aristotle beating the air; Tullius soothes the rough with the force of words; Ptolemy carries himself entirely in the stars. 
1:11	Boethius deals with innumerable things; Euclid measures the spaces of places; frequenting Pythagoras around the carpenters. He draws from the hammers the primordial voice. 
1:12	I see Lucan the leader of the warriors; Virgil forming golden flies; Ovid feeding the crowds with fables; you will teach Persia the naked satyrs. 
1:13	The state of Stationium is incomparable, the comparison of which has drawn away; Terentius the plebeian actor dances; the peasants of Ypocras can drink absinthe. 
1:14	While I thought that the people were making innumerable gestures, there came an angel with a starry face, who said, look up and open the heavens and see quickly what must be done. 
1:15	I looked up to the swift heavens with a glance, and afterwards I was immediately in the spirit. Drawn through the ether in a wondrous circuit, placed at last in the path of the heavens. 
1:16	But the flash of lightning, which had flashed around, had reverberated from the first sight; and the angel who was with me said, wait, you will see what John had seen. 
1:17	He had seen that he had written the mysteries to the seven churches which are in Asia: you will also write; but the form is different. To the seven churches which are in England. 
1:18	While among the doubts I stood motionless, someone thundered as much as the voluble. The wheel of thunder, or the terrible voice of the horn or the trumpet. 
1:19	I saw, after the sound of the pulsating ether, seven candlesticks and seven stars, which the great man held in his right hand; and the angel said, (Brother, consider. 
1:20	These are the candlesticks of the seven churches, and the stars are all the princes today, who owe others the likeness of justice; they place the lamp of grace under the lampstand.)
1:21	After this he attached, with seven titles, a codex sealed with seven seals, saying, (Look with attentive eyes, which you will make known to the circles of the world. 
1:22	This codex is aware of the prince of life, which will be made clearer by the seals, for inside it is closed more detestable, and praiseworthy things hang outside 
1:23	In the first chapter he opened a sign, and I saw four animals of different shapes, 
1:24	the first animal like a calf, the third a man, and the one full of flying eyes, 
1:25	with the first The connection of the first chapter is revealed, I brought the whole line of the title. 
1:26	Leo is the high priest who devours; who, being thirsty for pounds, pawns books; looking at the mark, he disfigures Mark; sailing on high, whether he should anchor. 
1:27	He is the young calf that runs faster in the pasturage, gnawing what he knows better, and is stuffed with the goods of another. who sees from afar the prey which he follows, and when he flies round he lives by the rapture.
1:28	There is an eagle that rests on its wings the archdeacon, who is called a predator; who sees from afar the prey he follows and when he flies about he lives by rapture. 
1:29	It is that he puts on a human face, a silent dean full of wisdom, who covers fraud under the guise of justice, and lies with a pious and simple appearance. 
1:30	These are the ones having four wings, because the affairs of things fly around; they are full of eyes, because they look at the previous gains, and the subsequent ones. 
1:31	Everyone walks with a moving wheel, while the mind turns on a rolling axis; and he is bent round by a changeable will, and in the meantime he follows the wheel from the like. 
1:32	After I had read the above title, I began to read the subscripted chapter, in which I learned the manners and life of the princes, who the leaders of the people lead the people astray. 
1:33	Woe to the horned leaders of the nation! who punish the mutilated with armed foreheads, while everyone has hay in his horns, not the shepherd of the sheep but the shepherd of the sheep. 
1:34	He does not so much think of the poor, of the lame sheep, of the sick, or of the tender, as much as of the mixture of milk and wool; thus he carries the lost sheep on his shoulders. 
1:35	If the common people know of a few excesses, he causes the injured joints of the faith, he draws the right sheep to the cause of the tribes, tearing their skins and milking their pockets. 
1:36	The wandering herd follows the wandering herd, whom the shepherd leads astray along the path, after the milk and skins, he gives the sheep's meat. the teeth of wolves and the beaks of birds. 
1:37	Ill betrothal ties in the ring, and the government weighs the flock on the staff, while only the canons hang in the chest. So I stopped in bed at the first chapter. 
1:38	The sky is set on fire by the gathering of clouds; there is a flickering, the air is shaken, and the voice of thunder rolls in the wheel; for this second seal is paid. 
1:39	Behold, I have read a chapter concerning the manners of the archdeacon, who in his turns whatever escapes from the princes he seizes with his hands, and tears with his beak and claws. 
1:40	This one sits full of eyes for the synod, the lynx for intrigues, Janus for convenience, Argus for every way of evil of the mind, and Polyphemus for the method of art. 
1:41	He established the decrees of thousands of doctors, the weight of which is greater than the right of judges. 
1:42	While fanning the causes of discordant persons, forming fallacies under the form of a canon, he transforms the canon into the form of Simon, who is Mercury of the archdeacon. 
1:43	The ecclesiastical law makes sale to the forefathers; but venial. When he has given the gift, he calls for forgiveness, which the church does not find. 
1:44	Seduced by the deceit of the messenger, he seizes the hearth, so that by the fortune of the room he may have the fortune of the chest, and by the vehicle the omen of the vehicle. 
1:45	He orders the deacon that if he knows that the presbyters are becoming datives through the genitives, the accuser should cause the call to be crushed, after the brothers were taken away from the gate of hell. 
1:46	The body interpolates the lunar Cynthia, envelops the air in the mist of clouds, in concrete darkness like the night; for this seal he paid himself a third. 
1:47	And the Angel said, (read what you find;) who, while reading, found out about the man of crime, who goes about the places the hunter of Venus, the catcher of infamy, the fisher of gifts. 
1:48	This man is a dean; who in the form of a man is not a man but a virus, with virile sanity, raging at men with the strength of madness, lying to a human being with a human face. 
1:49	The dean is the archdeacon's dog, whose canons are discordant barking, singing about the canon is discord with the canon, given and sold is the concord of Symon. 
1:50	The dean is a dog who, following his predecessors, follows the footsteps of greed for gain, and cleverly leads the purses of the clergy where the master had previously fixed the nets. 
1:51	The order to resolve the disputes which he raises, a refugee from truths, dwells in falsities; He is certain in doubts, he doubts in certain things, he who speaks piously thinks deceitfully. 
1:52	A small gift pledges help to the giver: but after you have calmed the hot hearts of things and the dross of money, after the gift there is nothing to praise the cup. 
1:53	He promises help if you contribute anything; but if you anoint the itchy palm with ointment that is boiling over, the gout will go away. 
1:54	He promoted the unjust and crushed the just, the destroyer of justice when he felt the gain; the lover of Titius, if he joins the right; the ruler of crime, if he removed himself. 
1:55	A golden hand flashed from the top, which seized the book with three fingers, and suddenly, releasing the sign, it disappeared: at this the fourth chapter appeared. 
1:56	Here I found written the practices of officials, kidnappings, swindles, frauds, intrigues, and indecencies that exceed the limits of the great code. 
1:57	These are those whom the world shuddered by holding back; at whose face the earth trembled; whom, while he begat in the Rhodopes, he made them fear all evil. 
1:58	As much as they can mess up from their own innate crime, or from their duty, what scribe can the pen of the one who writes hastily, what voice, what tongue, be able to reweave? 
1:59	Let them slander others with light commissions; namely, fury and ferocity. when they have practiced, there is silence, no murmuring resounds, nor complaints. 
1:60	These hunters and fowlers lay snares for the princes safe and timid, spears for the ignorant, nets provided for, snares for the unwary, and snares for the cunning. 
1:61	In this way, the presbyter often wins a thousand denarii from a camera, taken from a poor man; but ten thousand fall from the side, which never come close to the right-hand man. 
1:62	Above all, the churches are hunted with zeal; if they have extorted it, it never becomes a question as to whose name the dedication is, but how much money the rent is based on. 
1:63	This is always in the way of its adjuncts, by which something is always done to the contrary; hence the name of the officials who have the duty to officiate. 
1:64	Then there are whirlwinds and earthquakes; A clear voice thundering from the throne of heaven proclaims the ephesus, which is the opening; and the solution of the fifth seal is made. 
1:65	I read the prologue of the priestly manners and acts in the first chapter, alas! who disfigure the beginning of things, while they sell a trinary for a penny. 
1:66	The priest is shamefully interested in the divine, who constantly celebrates the divine with wine, who aspires to God's crap. 
1:67	A priest can rarely be called a priest by right, than a presbyter who says well; for then he is a priest when he has given the sacraments, but then a priest when he has given three times. 
1:68	He sins more boldly, because he learns from the people in Lent the worst kinds of sin and so many of the most serious ones, thus considering it his least committed. 
1:69	A man of blood, abominable to God, desiring death more than the life of men, prefers one child-bearing woman capable of seed to eleven thousand virgins. 
1:70	After the mass the priest, leaving the infula, went down to the island of harlots; so did Jupiter, who, according to the story, left heaven, following the calf. 
1:71	This is the greatest thing he proposes to women, that a tenth of things does not save the soul; no one will be saved at the last hour unless he gives a tenth of his body. 
1:72	So let the foxes be sheltered in the pit, and it will not beget children for the sake of Venus; but that he may have souls of his own, to whom he may be able to restore those which he has lost. 
1:73	After this, an ethereal nobleman with a rosy face emerges from the chamber, and as he touches the snow with his finger, I see the sixth seal untied. 
1:74	This chapter is woven with short figures, small and coherent letters, and close interlinears, and the clergy is full of frequent excesses. 
1:75	Stupid laziness, swelling elation, sullying lust, burning ambition, indecent pleasure, and vile action, proceed from the profane college of the clergy. 
1:76	Behold, the person of the vicar first commits the souls and the rights of the spirit, and he retains the causes and rents, which he devours boldly and fearlessly. 
1:77	Dividing a wandering soul into several, possessing ten or more churches, it is ill fitting for each subject, while it is always present and absent as an accident. 
1:78	The pinnacle of its hall is higher than the church of all the saints; and theirs is more valuable than the coverings of ten altars. 
1:79	He makes surveys and buildings, drams and rings and money-changers, everything from the governor's bank, which he allows to stand naked at the doors. 
1:80	The vicar governs committed souls as his own, for in order that he may lose others more freely, he thinks of his own being destroyed rather, before evil. 
1:81	Every abnormality flows from the clerics: with God they should have anxious minds, treat forbidden business and wages, and unduly change the baseness of things. 
1:82	Here he furrows the seas at the command of the Lord; here worships fairs that no one can believe; here the partner of the ox and the ass plows: thus the lot of each is contrary to the order. 
1:83	This gentleman despises the haircut; the other was ashamed at the name of the cleric; here, balancing his children, he abandoned his books: thus the clergy flourished among the laity. 
1:84	At this a crowd of Ethiopians came forth with a whirlwind from a certain brown bitumen, who came for a long time to examine here and there, crying out seven times, (And thou, O Lord.)
1:85	With a terrible cry and a terrible voice, the leader seized the mouse with trembling and was crushed, and stood in his body as if inanimate, while the seventh seal was being dissolved. 
1:86	I see the manners and works of an abbot, each of whom is the leader of a flock to hell; in a movable enclosure, fixed in a chamber, and in a chapter as if ephemeral. 
1:87	To utterly despise the joys of this world; which is proved by the passion of the silence of the spirit, the brokenness of the heart, the going out of the waters, the cheapness of the haircut, and the ugly habit. 
1:88	But when their habit is disgraceful, Venus dwells more securely in them; if it does not fit well, a higher haircut, a forehead inclined to the cup, is freer. 
1:89	If those who weep have a broken heart as usual, they smile at the ever-applied cup; if they restrain their tongues with the spirit in silence, they speak many abuses with their fingers. 
1:90	For those who are eating, their mouths are precipitated by a wish, their teeth are anxious, their throats are open to the grave, their foamy stomachs are gurgling, and their fingers are raking. 
1:91	While the abbot is celebrating dinners with his brothers, the goblets are twisted by those who propel them, and he raises the wine in his hands, and thus exclaims in the voice of his grandson:
1:92	(O how glorified is the lamp of the Lord, the intoxicating cup in the hand of the mighty! he! O! Bacchus! Be the leader of our assembly, I have brought us forth from the offspring of David!)
1:93	Resuming the cup drawn by Ceres, he cries out, (Can you drink this cup which I am about to drink in his own kind?) they answer, (We can! ha! hi! do it quickly!)
1:94	But that condition should not be drinkable, that he who holds, should hold until it is done in the middle, hence there would be a dispute and a contradiction; he drinks to the brim without quarreling. 
1:95	Then they establish a law and a mutual agreement, that there should be nothing left in the cup: thus, without rest of the stomach and hands, they empty the full vessel and fill the empty one. 
1:96	Each of the monks becomes demonic, and the monk congregates with each monk, like pi ca picæ, - like a parrot to a parrot, to whom the teacher gives talent to the stomach. 
1:97	To these the grindstone of the teeth causes a swelling of the throat, a flood of the throat of the stomach, the sting of the mouth causes the flames of litigation, and the hammer of the brothers gives the heat of harm. 
1:98	When between the fables and Bacchus's cup the crabble suspends the mode and the rule, they say that what is said is favor from fable, mode from mode, and rule from gluttony. 
1:99	And so there is a frequent transgression of the order, frauds, perjury, bruises, distractions, hungers of the mind, distractions of things, entanglements of the stomach, shaking of things. 
1:100	There is no demon greater than a monk, nothing greedy, nothing more greedy; who, if anything is given, is the possessor of all; if anything is desired, it has nothing of its own. 
1:101	If he dines, he must not know how to speak, lest the tongue hinder the work of the teeth; if he drinks, he should drink sitting down, lest the foot fail under the weight of his stomach. 
1:102	By day he dances and worships the casks, by night he is buried with bipedal beasts, by such discrimination, such trouble, the man of God deserves the heavenly kingdoms. 
1:103	When these things were more fully seen and known to me, my leader took me by the hands, and tearing the head into four pieces with his fingers, he loosened the framework of the head into four. 
1:104	And lest I should have seen the mysteries wrongly, I had held them in one side by fixing the backs of their heads. a stiff stubble, dry and rough, wrote in his brain all that I had seen. 
1:105	By these deeds I was carried to the top of the clouds, and I was carried up to the third heaven, where I saw a wonderful mystery, and ineffable to any mortal. 
1:106	At the drawing councils of the supreme judge, among so many thousands and hundreds of thousands, I learned the profound counsels of God, unfathomable to human minds. 
1:107	After I had seen them, I was immediately hungry, and the nobles of the great council offered me poppy seed bread, while others of the Lethais threw the milk of the river. 
1:108	And when I had eaten the poppy-seed bread, and poured milk on my lips, I immediately forgot the divine service, and could not know anything about the others. 
1:109	I fell from heaven like Cato the third, and I do not come as a secret messenger from the highest, but what my comrade wrote to me, I can tell you this more faithfully. 
1:110	Oh, how much I could say and how wonderful about the things above and the fate of the world, if the poppy dinner had not made the tracks of the sophistic mind slippery.
2:1	With the sun coming in behind the ram of the bull, painting the face of the new earth with flowers, the pine under the blossoms newly budding, I lulled my limbs in sleep, a little weary before. 
2:2	A certain forest seems to me to enter, in which every branch has begun to sprout; which was unable to be disfigured by the cold of winter, nor to deviate from its state of beauty. 
2:3	Around the bottom of the forest the wind was whispering, with its frequent breath the forest resounded; and there he pretended to be hoarse, but it resulted entirely from the pulsation of the navel. 
2:4	About the middle part, the middle of the branches, as if forming a multitude of drums, personified something honeyed and beautiful, and at the end with a sweeter song of wings. 
2:5	Epitrites, sextuple, with a double combination, a concert is made, with a consonant modulation, and, as is done by the singers in Elycon, the whole forest resounds in proportion. 
2:6	For the middle of the branches is shaken by the wind, and by a continuous pulse pushing the branches, intervening with a mixed semitone, the diatessaron sounds, it sounds diapente. 
2:7	But in the more prominent part of the forest the voice resounded with a sharper sound, so that the uppermost part of the middle and the lower answered in a mutual harmonious tenor. 
2:8	Here is heard the voice of sweet birds, whose forest rang with the voice of complaints; but that diversity of consonances prefigures the order of the seven planets. 
2:9	In the middle of the forest there is an open field, purple with violets and other flowers. 
2:10	There stands the king raised on pillars, the base of which is solidified with jasper; the walls are gilded, the roofs are gilded, and the interior and exterior are all painted. 
2:11	To conjecture from the picture seen that that slaying had been divine; Vulcan had done these things with special care, all under cover, all under form. 
2:12	Here he had painted the nine sisters of Elycon, and all the heavenly circles of the region; and with these and others the event of Adonis, and the chains of Gradius and his own Dion. 
2:13	That house is the place of the universe, containing things and things, the form with the forms, which the best creator who presides over the creatures made and arranged with a gesture of goodness. 
2:14	Here within I hear many in the manner of a concert, so that I should believe that a meeting of the goddesses was taking place: for every instrument sounds in its own kind, and makes a theme of joy. 
2:15	Where I had heard the vocal noise, there is a proportional harmony of things. For as the instrumental voice is in harmony there, so is the musical connection in things equal. 
2:16	Inside I see the king sitting on high, and leaning on his scepter as is the custom of a king; and his spouse clinging to his side; disposing of this and that of subordinate things. 
2:17	By this the heat inherent in things is represented, although here and something else is denoted by it; by means of this the whole engine of the world is heated, the tree bears fruit, the earth is fertilized. 
2:18	From the head of the king Pallas issues a cloud, which he has bound to himself by a firm bond; she covered her face all around with a veil, and did not reveal herself except to those who saw her. 
2:19	This is the mind of the highest, the mind of divinity, which commands the laws of nature and fate; It is an incomprehensible thing to the deity, for it escapes the constraints of our littleness. 
2:20	I saw Cyllenius, the supreme legate, placed on the left of the aforesaid deity, as if reddened all purple, his face shaded with a kind of tender pubes. 
2:21	In this that is a messenger, I want to point out that the grace of speaking unites many. I said to shade his pubic face, so you must color the conversation nicely. 
2:22	She is married to a count of divine stock, clad in cyndalium, partly hyaline, face more radiant than the morning rose, which neither the night had cooked nor the frost hurt. 
2:23	Unless he is coupled with the word of wisdom, he is regarded as wandering, dissolute, and weak; and when he makes little progress, he gains little; he needs to be steered by his oars. 
2:24	He gave this to Phronesis as a special gift, in the assembly of the gods on the wedding day; he placed on his head the crown of a virgin, whose house shines as a medial jewel. 
2:25	By sertu I mean circumspection, so that by doing you may have circumspection; the gem set symbolizes the middle principle, which is to prevent all action. 
2:26	The sun wears a wreath on his lofty head, filled here and there with innumerable rays; nothing is hidden from him, nothing unknown, but what this means is quite open. 
2:27	His appearance was of a thousand kinds, the diadem of his head clear and sincere; this is the eye of the world, and the cause of days, and the vital spirit, and the fuel of things. 
2:28	Before the god there were four urns standing, overflowing with the elements of all things; these are the parts of the four years, imitating the eras of different kinds. 
2:29	The Elyconides hold their own instruments that they may become perfect complements of joy; and they applaud the organs between the sacraments, which present their mystical arguments. 
2:30	They are nine in order, nine to sing, nine to hold new lyres in their hands, and to touch the strings of different polices; but nevertheless to answer him in unison. 
2:31	It is not a great burden to say what it signifies; that good worker made nine circles; eight are in harmony with themselves, the ninth lacks sound, for sound cannot be produced without movement. 
2:32	Or there are endowments which the worker bestows upon Psyche, with which he is surrounded, with which he is invested, and with which the possessor is marked by titles, when he approaches the fragile shelter of the flesh. 
2:33	The three virgins stood facing Jupiter, standing firmly with their fingers joined together; their bodies are turned away, their faces turned away, they are the offspring of the high god in the universe. 
2:34	The gift of God is supposed to be generosity; if he has given anything, it must be restored immediately; and the given memory should be firmly held, so that if it was simple, it would return double. 
2:35	From here the noise of the cymbals sounds with the bombs; a train of satyrs is led by Silenus; the drunkard trembled, and preceded the dance, and roused the laughter of each of the gods. 
2:36	Venus dominates the greatest part of these; he supplicates for himself, he is served; this is usually accompanied by his son, naked, blind, with a child's face, and wings. 
2:37	Naked, for he cannot bury his purpose; blind, because reason is unable to soothe him; a boy, for he is wont to play more with a boy; winged, while it usually passes easily. 
2:38	His quivering weapon is gilded, and slightly curved at the top; an irresistible weapon, a feared weapon; for he who is struck by this drives away celibacy. 
2:39	Pallas alone is opposed to the sun of Venus, and for all her strength she is even weary; for what pleases Venus, Pallas is spurned; Venus rarely accompanies chastity. 
2:40	Here different people fight, and different lives; invite those who deviate from the usual practice; to whom, whether Pallas Aphrodite is worth more, she is still under the pendulum, she is still under the suit. 
2:41	Psyche is held by the ties of Cupid; Mars is scorched by the fires of Nerine's consort; Janus was afraid of being separated from Argyone; only the offspring of Pronoes deserves to be loved. 
2:42	The psyche is captivated by the temptations of the flesh; fate fluctuates on Mars, Nereus wanders. The workman glories in his work: what will happen in the future is left to God to know. Heraclius was burning, Partridge was circling; all that Samius was in proportion. 
2:43	The Philosophers were present, and the usage was as follows: Crispinus weighed Zeno on his shoulders; Heraclius was burning, Partridge was circling; all that Samius was in proportion. 
2:44	Cicero implied, Plato explained; from here Appius dissuades, from here Cato persuades; Archelias considered the void to be a plan, that which he had begun was placed on every side. 
2:45	He had brought with him Ceta m Ysopullus; Cynthia Propertius, Delia Tibullus; Tullius Terence, Catullus Lesbia; no one had come here without his vassals. 
2:46	And that is its own ardor and embers; Pliny of Calpurnius is kindled by a spark; Pudentilla burns Apuleius with her: this and that hold him in her arms. 
2:47	Verses form variously varying meters, cobbled, slippery, edgy, crackling; these men who are recalcitrant, those who recur, they say everything in a witty way, but they do nothing rude. 
2:48	There is seen that teacher of Carnot, whose fierce tongue cuts like a sword; and here the prince stands the prince of Pictavien, formerly both a soldier and a soldier of the marriage. 
2:49	Between these and others in a remote part, an inhabitant of Parviponti, I do not speak unknown, argued with pointed fingers in iota, and whatever he said was known by itself. 
2:50	We saw the famous theologian Lumbard; with Yvonne, Helya, Peter, and Bernard, of whom Abaielard was the most numerous of the opobalms, breathed, and nard, and professed. 
2:51	The monk Reginald contends with a clamor, and seizes everyone with oblique words; He rebuked these and these, and did not descend into himself, who hangs our Porphyry with a snare. 
2:52	Robert the theologian is present to the world with a living heart, and Manerius is second to none; speaking with a deep breath and a deep mouth, in which indeed there is no one in the world more subtle. 
2:53	Hence also Bartholomew, sharp-faced, orator, dialectician, shrewd in speech; and Robert Amiclas followed in like manner, with these whom I pass over, a small people. 
2:54	The bride seeks where her Palatine is, whose divine spirit has all existed; He asks why he withdraws himself like a stranger, whom he had embraced to his bosom and bosom. 
2:55	The children brought up by the philosopher cry, the hooded people's first hooded; and like an onion with a coat on three coats, he made silence upon the imposition of so great a wish. 
2:56	Here is a herd of wickedness, a herd of perdition; the wicked and worst of Pharaoh's heirs, outwardly giving the appearance of religion, but underneath is a spark of superstition. 
2:57	A nation of rubbish, a nation of this unprofitable nation, whose greed is infinite in mind; therefore flee from them, and avoid them; and do not answer these, (it is not so) or (yes.)
2:58	While they decide upon this, and the decree pleases them, that they may withdraw this one from the company, and that he may not hear the philosophical secret, let him hold the scent of mechanical study. 
2:59	Whatever is given by the sanction of such a court, must not yield to invalidity, must be considered valid; therefore the hooded flock is reviled, and expelled from the philosophical schools. - Amen
3:1	Having been asked by many of my brethren the day before, that I should explain to them, and having proved it, why the Son of God was so humanized, that he should be roasted on the horns of the cross, and that his side should be pierced with a lance, thus I began to say to many invited. 
3:2	Venerable men, men of learning, enemies of injustice, armed with laws, you are not commanded with sufficient burdens, nor are you allowed to go to the great things to the little ones. 
3:3	You have entrusted me with the ministry of the word, which is quite appropriate in these days; the face blushes, the heart is sad; I became a beginner, you forced me. 
3:4	I speak to the wise, I plead with the discreet, if I do not speak worthily, you must spare me; I do not know how to speak of heavenly secrets, the blind among the apostles, the blind among the prophets. 
3:5	In their greatness they exceed the ideas of the ignorant of the individual three persons: what the Father is, what the Son is, it is little clear to me; what is the reason why the Father holds the Son dear? 
3:6	There is one substance in three persons, the rule of unity more than of union; let him announce in the angels, judge in the thrones, to the eternal series of disposition. 
3:7	Since the Creator of the times is not temporal, he became a material thing under time; The Father is efficient, the Son formal, the cause of both Spirits is final. 
3:8	All subjects serve the Creator, under perfect measure, number, and weight; reason directs man upwards towards the invisible, understood by these things. 
3:9	The greatness of things foretells the power; order wisdom, or beauty; abundance of goodness in the utmost fullness; this game feeds the mind's eye on the Trinity. 
3:10	He presides over all things with dignity, being made in the image of the majesty of God; all things serve him, he himself serves him whom he preaches night by night and day by day. 
3:11	He bound all things to our servitude, some for pleasure, some for salvation; they know that they are clothed with evangelical rules, which it is proper to enjoy, which it is right to use. 
3:12	He wanted us to be enriched by these benefits, and he added the crowning glory of the service, when he sent his Son to be incarnated for us, that he might unite man to his salvation. 
3:13	This generation is indescribable; in a simple person the nature is twofold; he who is the creator is himself a creature, tying unlike stable joints. 
3:14	I am silent about a part of the blessed virgin, not originally bound by the flesh, nor once tithed in the loins of Abraham, whence Levi is greater in dignity than Christ. 
3:15	This together with the soul joined to God, one personally, one life of the world; faith preaches so, faith believes so, let it perish in treacherous heresies. 
3:16	Having flesh like the flesh of sinners, preferring the form of a servant, the habit of a beggar, he repulsed the wiles of the enemy as if by deceit, such a war befits a treacherous judge. 
3:17	When the adversary put his hand on the God-man, to move the stable, to weaken the healthy, if he had any right to the human race, it went irrevocably in vain. 
3:18	O wonderful battle! O worthy trophy! The lamb destroys the wolf, the innocent the wicked; he who had conquered by a tree was conquered by a tree, which is the terror of the enemy, which is the sign of life. 
3:19	The physician is sick, he heals the sick, not through five corridors, nor through the movement of water, but in a potter's vessel and in part, he joins the remote one to the nearest wall. 
3:20	The maker of the ages begins in the world; he hungers for the bread of life, he thirsts for the fountain of gardens; the eye of the blind is closed in the sleep of death, the God of the angels is cast out of the people. 
3:21	The sun is covered in a cloud, the day is darkened; security trembles, virtue weakens; discipline is cut down, salvation is cursed; life is crucified, order is disturbed. 
3:22	It would profit us little if the redeemer should die, lest life return to the redeemer again; the book is honored among the dead, and the one who was born sits at the right hand of the begotten. 
3:23	In order that the page of scripture may resonate with the divine, the times of law and nature have passed, in the ancient fathers the figures of works, the allegorical sense of the obscure species. 
3:24	To start from the first rudiments of the world, a woman is made from the rib of sleeping Hades; the church glowing with the sacraments of life came forth from the side of the dying Christ. 
3:25	This is the ark in which Noah reigned in the cataclysm; this Jacob, waking up, raised the stone; Moses looked at this in the sickle vessel; this is Naomi's daughter-in-law whom Boaz loved. 
3:26	This is a tabernacle made in the desert, surrounded by a court, compacted with boards; this is the Ark of the Covenant, this is the covenant of life contracted between true Israel and God. 
3:27	Outside the atrium life is active, in which the sacrifices are figurative; here he crushes the altar by encouraging the dear, demolishes the fat, tears the lascivious. 
3:28	The sacrifices are burned with the meat offered, the wood of the Lord's cross, the flame of charity, the lamb of innocence and simplicity, the goat of repentance, the turtle of chastity. 
3:29	The first tabernacle is contemplation, the table which is set before it signifies the reading, the bread the word of faith, the incense prayer, the candlestick the spirit enlightenment. 
3:30	The pontiff of the future is the Christ of the good, who at the same time entered the holy of holies, not in the blood of goats or calves, but in his own, opening the access to the heavens. 
3:31	Here he extinguished the sword that resisted us, the versatile sword, the burning sword; and removed the Cherub holding the sword, while Christ receives the thief confessing. 
3:32	That Abel was killed by the hands of his brothers, that he was offered a child whose name was Laughter, that he was sent into the well without his brothers seeing him, that he was mocked when he went up to Bethel bald.
3:33	The face of the mystical lamb is the death of Pharaoh, that Salomon's father's saliva runs down, that Daniel entered the place of Babylon, all is the mystery of Christ's passion. 
3:34	To touch the sublime is a burdensome thing, the air in the clouds is dark water, as the lily or the rose differs from the thorns, so life is defective from the praises of God. 
3:35	A beast touching the mountain must be stoned, and the unworthy, I fear, will suffer the same punishment as the braided one; but I require pardon from you, whose wishes I do not want to resist. 
3:36	In the meantime, let us beseech the grace of God, which we believe to be humane, the highest medicine, that those who have experienced the last may be brought to ruin; so let there be salvation for all, both now and at the end! Amen.
4:1	I will use the song of the rebel against the vices; others put forth honey, gall is supplanted by honey, the iron breast is under a gilded skin, and the lion's spoils are put on by the eagles. 
4:2	The rebellious face disputes with the heart, honey flows from the mouth, the mind is full of fury; it is not all honey that is like honey; the face is different from the skin of the breast. 
4:3	There is vice in the work, there is virtue in the mouth, they cover the pitch with the snowy color of the soul: the limbs ache each with a headache, and the root is like an apple in taste. 
4:4	Rome is the capital of the world; but nothing captures the world: all that hangs from the head is impure; for the vice passes from the first to the second, and from the bottom reeks that which is next to the bottom. 
4:5	Rome seizes individuals and their belongings; the court of the Romans is nothing but the forum: there the rights of the senators are sold, and the contrary is paid by a quantity of money. 
4:6	Here in the consistory, if any one governs his cause, or that of another, he must read this first, unless he gives money; Rome denies the whole; whoever gives more money better alleges. 
4:7	The Romans have a chapter in their decrees, that they may hear those who ask with their hands full: you will give or it will not be given, they ask when you ask; with what measure you sow, and the same you reap. 
4:8	Duty and request run at equal pace, you must work with duty if you want to work: do not fear Tullius if he wants to be caused, money enjoys singular eloquence. 
4:9	There is no one in this court who is not busy with money; the cross pleases, the roundness, and the whiteness pleases, and when the whole pleases, and the Romans please, where the coin speaks, and all the law is silent. 
4:10	If you feed your hand well with any great task, it is in vain that anyone will object either to Justinian or to the canons of the saints, because they transfer these straws as if they were in vain, and gather up the grain. 
4:11	Rome knows only avarice sparingly, it spares gifts to the giver, sparing is not sparing; There is a coin for the god, and a mark for Marcus, and the altar is less famous than the ark. 
4:12	When you come to the pope, take it for granted that there is no place for the poor, it favors only the giver; or if the hand lent is not considerable, he answers, this pipe is not worth to me. 
4:13	The pope, if we touch the matter, has a name from the matter; whatever others have, he alone wants to appear; or if you want to acquire a French word, paez, paez, dit le mot, if you want to get it. 
4:14	The pope seeks, the map seeks, the boss seeks, the gate seeks, the cardinal seeks, the runner seeks, all seek: and if what you give to one lacks, the whole sea is salty, the whole cause perishes. 
4:15	You give to these, you give to others, you add gifts to those already given, and when you have given enough, they ask for more. O you turgid purses, come to Rome; In Rome, the physics of the stock exchange flourished. 
4:16	Little by little the pouches are preyed upon; it gradually becomes great, greater, and the greatest prey. Why would I go through the details? To sum up, they all strangle the purse, and it expires at once. 
4:17	But the bursa of Tityi imitates the liver; things flee in order to return, they perish in order to be born, and by this agreement the pocket of Rome is plundered, so that when it gives all, it is all filled. 
4:18	They return from the court with a horned head: Jupiter holds the bottom, Pluto holds the sky, and the dignity of a brute animal approaches, like a gem to dung and a painting to clay. 
4:19	The rich give to the rich, that they may take there, and they meet in number relative to themselves: this is the law of the famous, which the scribes made, if you give to me, I will give to you. The Sermon of Pope Goliath to the Impious Prelates
5:1	The kingdom of the wicked Pharaoh is extended, the people of the Hebrews are oppressed, they are robbed of their goods, Saul is not restrained by the sound of musicians, Aaron is inflated and delighted with gifts. 
5:2	The order of prelates violates the temple of God; the sons are already stealing the flesh of the cacabos; these are the seed of Chanaan, the leaders of the wicked, through whom the gifts of the spirit become a cheap market. 
5:3	Isaac, the prince of his fathers, having once been summoned, Jacob accepted the task, satisfied with it; Israel blessed Judah's firstborn, Esau will weep long as if rejected. 
5:4	Excited, the princes leave the straight road; Jacob flees from Rachel and embraces Liam; I know that the wounded man limps when he is wounded; what is read of the future would be a prophecy. 
5:5	The lord the prince will sprout sophisms, through whom scandal comes, through whom schism comes; they sell sacred orders, they sell sacred chrism; they sell how much the spirit of charisma is in them. 
5:7	Now the fairs of the season are led to the forum, Simonia sprouts and expands the dance; but the Lord will scatter the way of the wicked. He will shake the heads of many in the land. 
5:8	I would say something unheard of, if it were permitted: every poor man is driven far from the altar, after the pontiff feels that nothing can be given; there is no one who vouches for a poor student. 
5:9	The choir of poets is already begging for pity; It is of no use to anyone to enter the fountain of letters: to him who possesses little, nothing or little is given; the dear prince leads nothing without duty. 
5:10	The pillars supporting the temple were already shaking; for the gifts of prelates pervert the minds; I believe that Tartarus will drink these things alive, who give nothing for nothing when they speak to Simon. 
5:11	The gold of the temple is made completely dark; many are rebuilding the wall of Babylon, through whom the master's house becomes a den of thieves, whom it is hard to kick against the spur. 
5:12	The feet of evangelists are soiled; but the heirs of Simon believe nothing; they empty other people's houses, they fill their own; the pastoral seat was turned into a court. 
5:13	The fig tree is completely dry without blossom; the courts of Gideon are destitute of sweet dew: already the fates warn the wretched prelates of Chorus, lest they perish together in a like manner. 
5:14	When I am unable to cut it, it functions as a skin; the apostles imitate Christ from those removed; none of these go round the world in sackcloth, but embrace the world with all their strength. 
5:15	Not to confess the truth, I speak for my own sake, but I am compelled to know the zeal of the house of God, who do not rule the princes, but rather the Pharisees, who make the subjects guilty as they are of the matter. 
5:16	They bear many hardships, many torments; here he enters the secret chamber of a few companions, and lying down there, having eaten his food, blots out with wine the guilt of the old people. 
5:17	The bursa of Tityi, however, imitates the liver; a thing flees to return, perishes to be born, and by this agreement the pocket of Rome is plundered, that when he has given all, he may be filled entirely. 
5:18	The other greater one suffers from the name for the trill: in the winter time, near the fireplace, perhaps it smells of wine, I put my mouth on it; you could be satisfied without a cup of wine. 
5:19	Whosoever you may be the pontiff, while here you may pray; time flows like rivers without delay; the hour of death seizes men, old men, and children, whose reins no one can hold back. 
5:20	Let us therefore exhort the supreme creator, in whom alone we defeat the wrongful driver, to give us the holy spirit of the dew, extinguishing completely the ardor of our crimes! 
5:21	Let us once again exorcise the mother of piety, in whom the supreme divinity of all things is hidden, that she may give the subjects and the prelates alive with her the bread of charity! Goliath's speech to the prelates
6:1	The law is made void by the teachers of the law, the clergy hates the laity, peace is endangered: no one can glory in the cross of the Lord, the fight, the dispute, the discord is calmed by the cross. 
6:2	A man's life is closed by a few days; there is scarcely one among men who discerns the truth. Already the people justly murmur against the clergy of God: there is fraud and confusion, the order of things is perishing. 
6:3	The child argues with the old man in equal dignity, Rachel does not want to console the crying children. He already sees the fall of Jericho repaired, while the evils of Sodom cannot be uprooted. 
6:4	Around the evening of the world evils recover, in an aged body the filth is rejuvenated: the cattle are soiled in their dung, and the limbs languish with a languishing head. 
6:5	Alas! Who, because of gifts, have condemned their lives! Swallowing a buffalo, straining a gnat; by the way of errors you have gone astray; nor does he have any free gifts of thanksgiving. 
6:6	Alas! The shepherds of Israel not feeding the flock, and not keeping the wolves from the flock of the Lord, who gave himself the price to save the nations! Erring in sending, not following Christ. 
6:7	Alas! Who sit on the seat of Moses! A law is said by you, which you do not fulfill, you keep its appearance in the church, whose life you undoubtedly do not have. 
6:8	Woe to you! The hypocrite, the son of sorrow, what each one was, is not visible outside: he who should have been the leader of a better life, through error became a snare of horror. 
6:9	Alas! Who favors the gifts of men in persons, and do not lend an ear to the voices of the poor: here the light of reason suffers an eclipse, since it is first in law, more important in goods. 
6:10	When he runs to goods with contented hands, it often happens that the right of those who have nothing perishes: the hand of the judge rages in the cause of the powerful, but Codri limps with anger bearing nothing. Goliae Versus de Prelates
7:1	When there are several orders and dignities, kings, archpriests, judges, abbots; that such are the prefects, that such are the magnates; that which is not proper to them, let them give thanks to Christ. 
7:2	A king who holds the government and primacy of the kingdom, to whom the exuberant source of the kingdom's resources, makes him overbearing and a magnanimous king, you know that this is only suitable now. 
7:3	O ye judges of the age, serving the king, promulgating laws by royal power, judging the poor in part justly, lest God accuse you of going astray. 
7:4	You whom the world exalts, whom the dignity of the priest has adorned, whom the pontifical has sublimated with the care of the pastoral care, makes you unremembered by this court. 
7:5	For when the courts of kings follow shepherds, pastoral government and law are postponed; in the absence of a shepherd, the flocks are scattered, and they are injured by the bite of the scattered milkman. 
7:6	You, cloistered monks, and you subpriors, sweetly call us brothers and sisters; but when the shepherds are made for their merits, then the fraternity perishes, you have already changed your manners. 
7:7	When you hold the staff and the abbot's turns, you inhabit the chambers, and you are removed from the cloister of the bedroom, and with your private laity you have decanted many times the uuesheil. 
7:8	But when the judge comes at the highest of days, when there is nothing hidden falsity or truth, demanding an account of individual things, then tears have no value, to repent late. 
7:9	Therefore, while there is time and you have light, have mercy and renounce the filth of sins, and purify yourselves in such a way that you may enter the palace of heaven rejoicing. Goliath to the Priests of Christ
8:1	Most blessed men, priests of God, heralds of the highest, lamps of the day, shining with the rays of charity and hope, receive with your ears the words of my mouth. 
8:2	You who serve in the sanctuary of God, whom Christ called the palms of the true vine, beware that you are not barren or bitter, if you wish to live with the true stock. 
8:3	You are bearers of the Catholic law, the salt of the earth, the light of men, the shepherds of the sheep, the wall of the house of Israel, the corrector of morals, the judges of the church, the teachers of the nations. 
8:4	If the protection of the law is wanting, the law slips away: if the salt disappears, in what will it be salted? unless the light appears, the way will not be known; unless the shepherd watches, the flock will be broken. 
8:5	You have begun to procure the vineyard of God, which you must water with the streams of doctrine, and completely root out the thorns and thistles, so that the roots of faith may sprout. 
8:6	You are threshing oxen in the threshing floor, wisely separating the grain from the chaff: they have you as a mirror, ignorant of the law, laity who are fragile and unstable. 
8:7	Whatever the laity see you displeasing, they doubtless believe that it is not permissible for them; but whatever work they see you accomplish, they believe that it is lawful, and that there is no guilt. 
8:8	When you are appointed shepherds of the sheep, do not be lazy, nor dumb dogs; they fear the sound of your shrill barking, the ravenous wolf envies the safety of the sheep. 
8:9	The flock of the faithful shall be supported by threefold food, the body of the Lord, by which faith is increased, the abridgment of speech, to be given discreetly, worldly food, lest it be endangered. 
8:10	You must preach to all men, but to whom, what, how, where, when, and why, you must carefully consider beforehand, lest anyone in your office should say that you are wrong. 
8:11	It looks to the office of your dignity, to give gifts freely to those who ask for grace: which if you sell against the rules of faith, you will feel the leprosy of misery. 
8:12	Serve the Eucharist freely to the people, and make it freely, consecrate it freely: according to the Apostle, test all things, approve only that which has been good. 
8:13	Let your conversation be religious, your conscience clean, your life virtuous, your habits regular, your reputation beautiful, and let no criminal corruption stain you. 
8:14	Be peaceful, sober, prudent, just, chaste, simple, pious, patient, hospitable, humble, teaching subjects, comforting the poor, correcting the wicked. 
8:15	Be benevolent, lest it lead you to guilt, the word which you propose should be abbreviated, by you well adapted among the simple, for there is no sin lacking in much talk. 
8:16	Let no pride express the sign of your dress, let the weight of your dress be a witness: we have nothing to do with those and dishonest cares, to whom the keys of the heavenly kingdom have been handed down. 
8:17	May you be able to exercise pastoral care in this way throughout your actual life, so that when you take off your carnal shawl, the Lord may put on you an eternal robe. Goliath Versus on the Priests
9:1	Priests, remember, nothing is greater than a priest who, endowed with the sacred endowment, is free from every wrinkle. 
9:2	Remember so much and so much, what is disagreeable to the Thunderer, who exhorts us to courage, when he says thus, (You are holy. 
9:3	(I am holy, you who are holy, be strengthened if you wish to me who am a true vine, who am pious, who am gentle.)
9:4	O blessed summons, consecrated priests, you are ordained for this, entrusted with the sacred air. 
9:5	You treat the body of Christ: for if you do it worthily, you will not experience chastity, with mouth and heart, for God's sake, when you know that you will reign with the chosen and blessed in the sight of majesty. 
9:6	Oh, how strong is the armor with which your care is clothed; but if by any chance you do contrary to the law, it will be broken, this scripture is well known to us, when you offer the sword to God, if your mind is not ready, they are not pleasing to him. 
9:7	Despisers of the poor, if you are contrary to manners, or merchants of the altar, you are thieves, not shepherds. 
9:8	O priest, answer these things, who frequently and pleasantly sleep with your wife, whence
9:9	Rising in the morning, you say mass, you bless the body of Christ, after embracing a harlot, less than you a sinner. 
9:10	I would like to know, however, why the sacrosanct standing at the altar as if to be sacrificed (?) is worthy of being beaten with a rod. 
9:11	He who is worthy to be beaten with a rod, when he is only a pledge of love, he who is a (?) fence and not a stick, is no longer an heir, but a stepchild. 
9:12	Worthy of death, worthy of punishment, come to the altar of Christ, with stench, with obscenities, kissing false knees. 
9:13	Full of filth, full of lies, you stretch out your hands to the perpetrator, whom you revile, whom you offend, harlots as you go up. 
9:14	Do not imbibe chastity, but unclean in heart and skin, sing the mass for the salvation of souls without impurity. 
9:15	With what heart, with what mouth, do you treat the body of Christ with blood, rising from the grave, worthy of plagues and torture. 
9:16	With what face, with what forehead, not forced, but of your own free will, mouth, heart, tongue, being, you drink from so sacred a fountain. 
9:17	I wonder, I wonder plainly, that the body of Christ is hidden under that bread, which the profane hands handle that morning. 
9:18	I am surprised, unless you are surprised, that you are not sucked from the earth, and when you are often stopped, you are not afraid to repeat it. 
9:19	Perhaps you think your hands are clean, when you frequently wash the waves, which, although you frequently wash them, you do not clean them because they are already stinking. 
9:20	Wash your hands, pour water; however clear, however clean, however abundant the spindles may be, the waves never cleanse them. 
9:21	You want to listen to garbage, if you want to end the guilt, soon the divine wrath will cease, and nothing can prevent you. 
9:22	If you have a broken heart, a broken heart, and you do not ask for a happy rite according to the rite, it will never be required. 
9:23	But when you deplore the guilt, and work hard to go away, because you know that it is to be mourned, you dishonor God more. 
9:24	Weeping here is of no use, and the guilt is not forgiven, but is rather increased, and God is more irritated. 
9:25	It is unjust to give mass to a priest who is impudent, and who often surveys the streets, and whose guest is a harlot. 
9:26	I witness a drunken priest, and slow to the work of God, and surrounded by sins, turned into a beast. 
9:27	The priest of Gomorrah, I say, is guilty above all, I do not want my audience, but this one more a Pharisee. 
9:28	God says to the priest, who is proven to be a Gomorrean, my speech is detested, because he is more than guilty. 
9:29	I do not care to serve a priest with a hard heart, or proud or impure, I will destroy him in the future. 
9:30	May the priest be blessed, through whom drink or dressing is given to him who is constrained by hunger, overcome by hunger! 
10:1	The time is acceptable, it is the time of salvation, it is the time to break the yoke of slavery; Let us therefore gird ourselves with the sword of valor, resisting with valiant courage our hairy enemies. 
10:2	Like a roaring lion, he investigates his enemies, he seeks those whom he may deceive, and he binds the deceived: he tires the souls with various contagions, so that he afflicts the poor with eternal bites. 
10:3	We have grievously offended the King of majesty, but the indulgence of the supreme Trinity, bestowing upon us his grace for free, heals us from languor and cleanses us from sins. 
10:4	Let us restrain the mouth of the pestilence of the flesh: if they have already become good, let them become better; let us choose more quickly and more honestly; for this delay draws us to danger. 
10:5	And do not perhaps think, (If I live ten years, then I will punish myself with cheaper clothes: then I will put on the clothes of Paul or John:) thus the peasant waits, while he flows down the stream. 
10:6	Why do you not confess the most unhappy things? say your wickedness’s, that you may be justified: you bring in barrens and seek in vain, waiting ten years, perhaps you will not be there tomorrow. 
10:7	Whosoever therefore repents, abound with tears, and cleanse your deeds with your mouth, heart, and body. David put these stones in a sling, this is the second table after the shipwreck. 
10:8	What shall we say to the wretched before the throne, before the only judge, before the supreme good? Then there will be no place for heralds here, when he will pay the rewards of our actions. 
10:9	When we have come to the examination of truth, we will stand before the throne of severe judges, there will be no distinction of layman or clergy, no exception will be able to protect us. 
10:10	Here it will not be lawful to allege anything, nor to reject the right, nor to reply, nor to appeal to the apostolic see: the guilty person will then be condemned, and it will not be said why. 
10:11	Think, rich people, who or what you are, what you can do in this judgment: then there will not be any place here divided, this God will be the same judge, author, witness. 
10:12	The general judge will judge the judges, the royal dignity will not profit there: but he will feel the stench of hellish punishment, whether he is a bishop or a cardinal. 
10:13	Nothing will be given there to the boss or the writer, nothing to the chamberlain, nothing to the janitor: but the princes will be given to the worst torturer, to whom it will be to live and die without end. 
10:14	With our judges the laws are subverted, and those who make the law do not use the law. But let the poor beware of the evils that follow: those who condemn others will be the first to be condemned. 
10:15	Therefore, the Creator of the heavens commands you that you should be companions of the righteous, like simple doves for examples of behavior, if you want to become companions of the angels. 
10:16	You, as the Lord says, gird your loins, which is undoubtedly a sign of chastity: bear this lamp with your hands, that you may set a good example for the people. 
10:17	You who wish to benefit the Lord's people, and who wish to preside over the Lord's people, whose life should be led tirelessly, pious, generous, humble, and worthy of attendance. 
10:18	Venerable men, servants of the altar, the Lord commands you to chastise the people, to root them in fervor, morals, and hope, so that you too can shine with the people. 
10:19	It behooves a priest to know the sacred law, to educate the people in life, manners, and words, so that when that day of wrath finally comes, they may hear the pious voice of the Lord:
10:20	Blessed children, inherit the kingdom that has been prepared for you without end, you holy priests, as well as the prophets, blessed children rejoice with me. Disciple of Goliath Bishop of the Gray Monks
11:1	Having used sleep and silence more than enough, arise from torpor at leisure, my muse; write under com pen dio, and do not be profuse, for there is a fault included in many words. 
11:2	A famous order of monks adorns the world, who, falling divinely from the top of the heavens, utterly destroys Babel and the Wi of the Chaldeans, and through him the servitude of idols perishes. 
11:3	They are marvels of continence, marvels of parsimony, the enemies of vain glory, the enemies of vanity, suffer themselves for nothing with cold and thinness, that they may thus enjoy the form of divinity. 
11:4	The outward worship of these is crude and cast off, the food is more austere, and the bed is neglected, the speech is also parched, and the understanding is scarce, no order is more holy, none is so perfect. 
11:5	They despise earthly things for the sake of things to come, they receive a hundredfold for their contempt, they violently seize the kingdoms of the blessed, they only taste the joys of heaven. 
11:6	Good Jesus, ruler of such monks, who are the judge of the living and the dead, if it pleases you to make me their partner, join me with them in the feast of all saints. 
11:7	You bring forth a nation clothed with praises, a nation deservedly ungrateful to all nations, imitating wolves under sheep's clothing, a nation full of fraud and robbery. 
11:8	They can hardly be called tyrants, but most ravenous and exceedingly greedy, for they seek to be preeminently captured by anyone, and they can be compared to a garden in the most direct way. 
11:9	The thin refreshment of pseudo-prophets, and the casting off of clothing marks the heart of the covetous; they wear their bitter hearts in silence, disguised religion is of little or no value. 
11:10	They thirst or seek for nothing but the present, they fill their pockets, they reap what they did not sow, they have enriched themselves by the poverty of the poor; they are and always will be servants of Satan. 
11:11	There are two who do not know how to detest enough, which I feel is the waste of the sea, the earth, and the sea, by which every region is usually devastated, and which cannot be met with any effort;
11:12	The pestilence of animals, which is called shuta, and that of the Cistercians, which spreads in this way: this double contagion plagues the world, which is more harmful is completely unknown. 
11:13	They lack the more shameful parts of the thighs, so that they are more ready for the customs of Friday, more absolve from the laws of chastity; among all men there are none worse. 
11:14	Close your lips, I beseech you, my muse, or you will no longer be mine because of abuses, because of such words you will be judged guilty, it is shameful to seek trophies through shame. - Amen. Goliath's Petition to the Pope
12:1	It is usually our manner, as when the feast smells of crowds, to speak in the manner of a cleric; lest, if we happen to say something to arouse laughter, the laity will laugh. 
12:2	I would recommend good manners, but I regret that there are few lovers of virtue; that if I criticize the wicked, and do not condescend to them, I see wars. 
12:3	But, O judge of equity, propagator of truth, gentle breeze of the world, be my refuge, I took the pen as my guide, I took the signs as my guide. 
12:4	In speaking to such a man, let us strive to be pure, but also to speak soberly; let us avoid venerating the dear, and, that we may be dear to the flesh, let us avoid the dear. 
12:5	For it is fitting, and this one thing is first of all appropriate, that I should judge myself: the old man should be put off, the new man should be put on, only before the judge. 
12:6	But who am I that dare to speak before so many? who? I who trust in a sound head, I will root out the wicked in the shelter, the voice of one crying in the wilderness (make straight paths.)
12:7	What is the desert but the world? he is not clean, but unclean, because he rejects the clean; but it is usually said to be a desert, because he who is accustomed to spring, behold, is completely dry. 
12:8	What used to sprout in prelates the flowers of generosity and modesty, destitute of such birth, brings forth the sprout not of virtues, but thorns and thistles. 
12:9	Who are the thorns in the tribula? Who? Shepherds and prelates, lovers of service: when they do not graze, but are grazed, they are not drawn from the graze, but from the grazer, of the grazers. 
12:10	They love the gentle and the bilingual, the dumb dogs, the fat bulls, the giant brothers who accumulate treasures, do not scatter them, but observe them like the apple of the eye. 
12:11	Everyone who has is gifted; he who has not is supplanted by that which he had: in the desert of this world no one flourishes, except whose purse has not yet vomited. 
12:12	A pregnant purse rules, and a wise man is trampled on if his hands are busy; for if Thalia be poor, she will be cheap. Why? Because the poor lie everywhere. 
12:13	The poor lie, but the robbers, whose words are flattering, and they themselves are the arrows; these are those whom the world loves, and of whom the Psalm cries (Blessed in the spot.)
12:14	They are blessed in spots, but they are not immaculate, as conscience bears witness. He lives according to his ways, because grace is spread on your lips. 
12:15	What do the arts give, except mourning and labor? or what fruit does the genus and species bear? Once upon a time many, it is not surprising, advanced, (arms of men) and (brotherly ranks
12:16	Of the ancients it was to study the fruits, and to have declaiming companions: now to bury money in a chest is more than to know (Bella per Emathios.)
12:17	They were usually wealthy who fitted Jesse's rod for the virgin birth, or the bush of vision, or Gideon's fleece, sprinkled with glassy dew. 
12:18	Above the waters of the Red Sea is depicted the salutary washing of salvation; although this is what brings profit, what does it profit me to know this, if knowing that I am hungry? 
12:19	Christ is usually called the stone taken from the altar, not by hand, but by forceps; this is known to the wise, but no one tells the one who asks for a gift, (take it.)
12:20	I know that the cross is represented when I read that the river is sweetened in Exodus: and with folded hands the man of true freedom prefigures the advantage. 
12:21	In the Hebrew text you read that the law-giver raised up the serpent on the manger, that death and destruction might cease, so also Christ washed away our corruptions on the manger. 
12:22	The two firewood of the spiritual Sareptene cook the meat of the supper in the church; And Abraham took the wood, by means of which the sacrifice worthy of God should be burnt. 
12:23	He turns wheel after wheel with him, thus he lays down the leprosy, known as light on the surface; Thus Joseph despised the cloak, when he did not heed the voice of the fornicator. 
12:24	Helyas pours water three times, and three times Saint Isaiah alludes to the Trinity. Abram saw the three dances, Ruth reaped the Trinity in the field of the Jews. 
12:25	And while he was going through the desert, he was found by the Gentiles a wave of deep heat, because the heat of the Holy Spirit was found in the wilderness of the law. 
12:26	Some are wont to scrutinize these things, after being afflicted with hunger, they are sorry that they have had time to study: from which many have perished, and failed in their scrutinizing. 
12:27	Therefore, because many are oppressed in studying, a small harvest is returned after the rough, I returned to the seat of his father and to the holy Syon of his mother's breasts. 
12:28	Shame on you, good shepherd, if you despise the divine lesson, I become a layman; either complete the clerical work, or make sure that I continue to be a cleric in the state of the clergy. 
12:29	My state will be sweet, if it is given as a gift, rent or otherwise. let me live, though I have not, at least it will be given to me, so that I may study what is proper to me.
13:1	I was rich and beloved, chosen among my peers; only old age bends me, and I am worn out with age, whence I am cast down lowly and neglected by the downtrodden, whose bosom sounds hoarsely, who has neither love nor affection, a heavy weight, a heavy bed, and a horrible sight. 
13:2	A lying and vain man, a brazen and profane man, the chaplain, the veteran veteran, threw me down, and laid hands on me, worthy to be called a Dacian. 
13:3	At first he loved me fraudulently and seduced me, after he had brought in my things, then he discovered his fraud, he did not see the first one for himself, nor did he understand the tricks, until he left the house beaten. 
13:4	He was good enough before, my purse making a sound; and he said to me, (Holy brother, I love you very much.)
13:5	Deceived by this flattery, as if I had been taken from silver, with pain, with a cannon, I was cast down in a moment, given to the rare and the wind. 
13:6	Given to the wind and to the dew, the primeval life to be given back to ugliness and error, I took a dignified burden, and like Judas worthy to die, who betrayed me to the traitor, I exchanged the dignity of your choir for a better one. 
13:7	When I hand myself over to the traitor, I shave myself from the book of life, and while I fall rushing of my own accord, it is a pity that I escape. 
13:8	I have done too much unwisely, I have committed myself to this evil, I myself have broken my own neck, who, leaving you, I chose to serve the sick flock; wanting to be covered with a lowly garment, than to serve the supreme King, where I have made so many surveys. 
13:9	Because I have erred before God, have mercy on me; for I weep unceasingly, groaning for my sin. 
13:10	I weep, groaning for my sins, yet justly and not gratuitously, I remember your honesty and brotherly charity, O what a hard lot of primates! How adversities are brought to me by fate! Isolated from the blessed, associated with the isolated, yet trusting in your fate, I will bear the weight of poverty. 
13:11	I will bear the weight of poverty; my field, my farm, my house, the whole world, which I am wandering about, once happy and fertile, and witty and productive, moving jokes and jocular; once first, now second; I am shy of seeking food. 
13:12	Ashamedly I seek my livelihood, I am a beggar, but where shall I seek my livelihood but from the clergy? Brought up under Piero, educated under Homer. But while I seek food in the morning, and am forced to return late, I will soon, as I hope, be a burden to you. 
13:13	Burdened, and where shall I go? I will not pass to the laity. I will eat a little, I will drink a little, my belly will be without swelling, and, satisfied with a little food, will be full with a little cake; that if I die of hunger, I attribute this fault to you. 
13:14	A certain brother, with a lame foot, was beaten in the same way, violently and foully, as a prisoner and a part of the prey, bound with a rope, by William Palimede,
13:15	The brother, broken in his limbs, who ought to have been safe, for his foot was pre-sharpened, had foretold no evil, but had not followed the commands, was kicked and clothed, and rolled in the mud. 
13:16	He rolled in the mud, a brother with a sharp foot, whom I cried out (God help me!) to be quite safe; 
13:17	I was an enveloped count, and I was beaten in the mud, while he was punished for good, none of mine, all of his own. 
13:18	They all helped him, the Canaanites for Canaan, the Perezites for Perezeus, but no one but God for me. God, help my brother, neither deserving nor guilty. 
13:19	I alone wept with emotion, I filled the race with tears because of the master's crimes I saw, and the cannon, I already roared. 
13:20	Who would have a dry light, seeing such an unjust work? an impudent priest, a corrupter of whores, of matrons and prostitutes, turning into a beggar, a lame man, an old man, and an old man, who, pushing through the back door, called him a helper and a friend when filling the street? 
13:21	Neither was a helper found, nor was a priest pitied; thus he is alone in the desert, completely covered with mud, and not sure where to set foot. 
13:22	I accused him of a shameful act, because of his brother who was thus broken, lame, old, and contracted; and while I say that it was done badly, I gave up the judgment. 
13:23	After this I did not sit inside, neither drank nor ate, I was disgusted by the order of the chaplain, who either imparts what is given to the sacred food, or gives it to a brother's heir, or takes it away to the cithara, so that he may acquire a good faith. 
13:24	Only, brothers, judge, and do not deviate from the sincere truth, who deviate from your primacy, or is an old man lacking in chastity, full of all abomination, who, excluded from charity, treated us in such a lowly manner, whose reputation is widely known, is worthy of dignity or deprived of power? Judge. Epistle of Goliath to the Gallic Brethren
14:1	Goliardus, the Englishman in Gaul, an obedient and humble brother, not a bastard, to the disciples of Goliath, being sorry that he is so slow, sends greetings to the brothers named Richard. 
14:2	I write to you timidly as an unknown man, who nevertheless will be yours as long as I live; I beseech you to be more attentive, supple and devout, to become a Goliard, not a cheap harlot. 
14:3	A messenger approaches you, a man of great probity, teacher and lord William of Conflatis, the best of Goliardus, do not be afraid of this; as it behooves you to admit the partner himself, whatever he says about me you should keep true, and rewrite what you will through him; Whatever you write to me or command by word of mouth, I will do it to the best of my ability, you know. 
14:4	Rejoice at the arrival of the noble messenger; Remain in the village which he entered, and when the hour has come, dine with him, and fill your cups with delicious food; When the season is cold, sit the plums; hold in your hands the most meager wine; if the cups are empty, fill them up; so that he drank and rebuked often with persuasion. If he has drunk well, then you can be sure, he will stay with you gladly and happily, until he finds the balance of the money in the purse, and until fifteen gallons have been drawn. If it has gone too far, bear it gently; be careful to spread what happens in the association. Now, dearest brethren, try to write down what your order is and the manner of your diet; if it is right to eat meat cooked in a pot, or small fish caught in a net; to drink from Lyeus or from the wave of Theta; whether Rosa or Agnete may enjoy it; to play secretly with a beautiful lady; to live continually without command. Teach me how I ought to behave, so that I may not live more indiscriminately in order; until I come to you, I am without rest: - what more can I say to you? - Be strong in the Lord! 
14:5	The highest salvation of all, the son of Mary, feed, drink, clothe Goliath's children! And preserve the members of the holy brotherhood, until the last days of Enoch and Helia: Amen. Goliath's Confession 
15:1	Inwardly burning with fierce anger, I will speak in the bitterness of my mind, made of the matter of a light element, I am like a leaf on which the winds play;
15:2	For whereas it is proper for a wise man to lay a foundation upon a rock, I am a fool compared to a flowing river, never remaining under the same air. 
15:3	I am carried away like a ship without a crew, as a bird is carried wandering through the ways of the air; I am not bound by chains, I am not held by a key; 
15:4	Treading the wide way in the manner of youth, I entangle myself with vices, forgetful of virtue, eager for pleasure more than salvation, dead in my soul I take care of my skin. 
15:5	To me the gravity of the heart seems a heavy matter; this is amiable and sweeter than the honeycomb; whatever Venus commands is sweet labor, which never dwells in the hearts of the lazy. 
15:6	Prince most discreetly, I beg your pardon, I die a good death, I die a sweet death, may the beauty of girls heal my breast, and those whom I cannot touch at least make my heart tender. 
15:7	It is a very difficult thing to overcome nature, to bear a pure mind in the sight of virgins; we young people cannot follow a hard law, and not take care of light bodies. 
15:8	Who, being placed in the fire, is not burned by the fire? Who in the world should be considered chaste, where Venus hunts youths with her finger, and preys on them with her eyes, but with her face? 
15:9	If you put Hippolytus in Papias today, Hippolytus will not be there the next day; All roads lead to this work of Friday; Alice's tower is not in so many towers. 
15:10	In the second place, I also talk about the game: but when the game is important, he lets me go naked; cold externally, I sweat with heat in mind; then the verse and the songs are better. 
15:11	In the third chapter I remember the tavern: I will not despise it at any time, nor will I abandon it, until I see the holy angels coming, singing eternal rest for the dead. 
15:12	It is my intention to die in the tavern: let the wine be put to the dying man's mouth, so that when they come to the choir of angels they may say, (May God be more propitious to this drinker!)
15:13	The lamp of the soul is kindled with cups; the heart, imbued with nectar, flies to heaven: the wine in the tavern is sweeter to me than the water that the butler has mixed with the princes. 
15:14	Some poets shun public places, and choose secret places of hiding; they sweat, they insist, they watch, and they work very little, and they can scarcely at last render a clear work. 
15:15	They fast and abstain from the chorus of poets, they avoid public disputes and tumults in the marketplace; and in order to make a song which cannot die, they die of passion, subject to toil. 
15:16	Nature gives each one its own function: I could never write fasting; one child could win me fast; I hate thirst and fasting as a funeral. 
15:17	Nature gives each one its own gift; such wine generates plenty of conversation. 
15:18	I write such verses as the wine I drink: I can write nothing unless I take food; It is of no use at all that I am writing fasting, I will praise Nasone with a poem after the cups. 
15:19	The spirit of poetry is never given to me, except then when the belly is well fed; when Bacchus, ruler of the brain, rushes upon me and makes me wonder. 
15:20	Behold, I was a betrayer of life to vanity, lest my servants reproach me; but none of them is his own accuser, although they want to play and enjoy crime. 
15:21	I am already in the presence of the blessed princes, according to the rule of the Lord's command; let him throw a stone at me, and spare not the poor, whose mind is not conscious of sin. 
15:22	I have spoken against myself whatever I know of myself, and I have vomited the virus which I have harbored for so long; the old life is displeasing, the manners are pleasing to the new; He sees the face on the ground, but Jovi's heart is open. 
15:23	I already love virtues, I am angry with vices; renewed in mind, renewed in spirit: as if just born, I feed with new milk, so that my heart may no longer be a vessel of vanity. 
15:24	The Prince of Coventry, sparingly confessing; show mercy to him who asks for forgiveness, and grant repentance to him who says so: I will do whatever you command me to do with my heart. Goliath into the raptor of his purse
16:1	Let the thief of my cap die by death, let death be sudden, and not foreseen, and continuous punishment follow after death, and let him not enjoy the Elysian fields after Lethen. 
16:2	The raptor of my hat falls to a painful death, fever, rabies, and fever invade him; the Lord shaves this from the book of holy life; Æacus hands him over to be tortured by the cannons. 
16:3	Let his life be short, and the end worst! Nor does he live happily here for two days; this Cerberus was torn with the teeth of a dog, torn more severely by the yoke of the Erinyes. 
16:4	He never flatters the filter cloth for a long time; let the thread of Lachesis cease not yet entirely; Atropos breaks the thread, and let him not enjoy his vow, and let him fall to the miserable priest removed. 
16:5	Let him be excommunicated in the field and on the roof! Let no one see him in the direct light! Let him always sit alone like a cast down: this one will be crucified by the punishment of the Tartars Alectus. 
16:6	Let him be stripped of all that he has, and let him kill neither confessedly, nor be anointed with oil; 
16:7	this, if anyone hears of the excommunication, and does not observe the examination of the princes; unless he received it by correcting his sin, he was anathema! Let it be, let it be Amen. Goliaths of the Spouse Not to Be Led
17:1	To God be the glory, the praise, the blessing! Also to John, Fetus, and Lawrence, whom the Trinity sent in this wreck, so that they would not allow me to use marriage. 
17:2	I had once wished to marry a wife that I might follow the path of many, a wretched, fair, beautiful, and tender maiden, whom I had loved alone among others. 
17:3	Hence some of my companions advised me to run quickly to marriage; they praised married life too much to have a partner in their miseries. 
17:4	I wanted the marriage to take place so quickly, that the miserable might rejoice over me; but by the three angels sent by God I found myself rescued from the gate of hell. 
17:5	Indeed, kindled by the love of a virgin in the springtime, when the sun is in Gemini; I would choose this woman out of all the women to marry her in faith of God. 
17:6	I wanted to submit to whose authority I wanted to submit, and to subjugate my neck to multiple punishments, but the charity of the great Father came to me through angels in the form of threefold. 
17:7	Indeed, in the valley which we call Mambre, the most high God sent three angels, among whom John speaks last, having a golden mouth, a man of great counsel. 
17:8	The Trinity came in three angels, whose voice was varied, but their sense was one, that he might know the perversity of the wife, the ever-changing heart, the frailty of the flesh. 
17:9	P. de Corbolio's fragile wife, Lawrence proves foolish and unstable, John asserts that she was never humble, but very proud and irascible. 
17:10	Power is given to P. de Corbolio, which marks firmness and a stony reason; here he speaks first of marriage, and of the laborious work of those who marry. 
17:11	Then the angels began to rebuke me when I wanted to marry, and speaking of the burden of marriage, he began in order and was the first to say:
17:12	(He who marries his spouse burdens himself too much, from whose burden only death frees him; the husband serves his spouse, and the wife commands, and he who was free has become a slave. the wife stimulates, that she cares for the children. 
17:13	He always accumulates labors upon labors, and labor comes, and labor sprouts; he is the donkey whom his wife stimulates to feed the children whom she adores. 
17:14	Marriage is a continuous pain, those who care for the cross, 
17:15	The woman always says she is sick, and the husband vomits he wears himself out with many labors, and then he will begin 
17:16	When things succeed to the spouses, they assert that they are doing everything; for the family, and by not dealing legitimately, he is forced to act as a fraud. 
17:17	There are many necessities for a husband, for himself, for his spouse, and for his family; and not dealing in business lawfully When buying, he is forced to use deception. 
17:18	The laboring man is scarcely sufficient for himself, and unknowingly leads the spouse of pain when a child is born, the brother is anxious, then he goes out weeping, the son of sorrow. 
17:19	He insists on labors for the sake of money, lest hunger press upon the stomachs of the family; he works constantly and without rest, and tomorrow he will begin as he did today. 
17:20	A tired man sleeps and dreams of his labors: thus he torments himself with continuous labor, so that he may feed his spouse whom he can never satisfy; therefore Goliath flees from his wife.)
17:21	Hence wisdom is given to Lawrence; for the green laurel with its full leaf is green in winter as in June; the following speaks thus of marriage:-
17:22	(A woman is always foolish, and diverse, and much is carried away by her desires; if the man does not give her sufficiency, she pollutes herself entirely by adulteries. 
17:23	That she may have clothes, she seeks adultery; 
17:24	The husband's substance soon after he has loved the adulterer, he gives this to the adulterer one can scarcely be accused of adultery, as a ship passing in the midst of the sea, is not apprehended. 
17:25	The evil wife asks for permission to go abroad through the monasteries and the roofs going up to the brothels, she celebrates more than sanctuaries. 
17:26	The adulterous wife was released from her lap it can hardly be accused of adultery; as a ship passing through the midst of the sea it is not included in any trace. 
17:27	He who marries his spouse puts on resentment; He feeds the adulteress who prostitutes herself, He determined the birth of another's heir. and nursed the son whom the other had begotten. 
17:28	This is the greatest pain and reproach, when a son is taken in by adultery, which his own wife knows to be spurious, the husband calls the son a fool. 
17:29	An adulterous wife joins herself with many, and stains herself with adulterers; but every day a man labors, and feeds his wife, whom the other flatters. 
17:30	This is the iniquity of every adulteress who would not live with her own husband; to give to the adulterer, he does not stop stealing; - so stop marrying Goliath. 
17:31	John follows, in whom there is grace, inspired by the Spirit with greater abundance; here he sees subtle things like an eagle, and so he argues about marriages. 
17:32	Truly, marriage is the highest form of servitude; the twofold distress of flesh and spirit: thus man is drawn like an ox sold, that he may be perpetually subjected to labor. 
17:33	He who leads a spouse is led to the yoke, and not knowing punishments is born to punishment; When he takes a wife, he himself is taken even more, for a servant always becomes a servant. 
17:34	For every woman is irascible, deceitful and envious and never humble; the husband has become like a donkey, which is always susceptible to burdens. 
17:35	The woman was made a helper, that she might save the seeds of the human race; in all others it is a burden to the man, that he always wants to be the master's mistress. 
17:36	Good spouses are extremely rare, there will hardly be unity among the millennial: there is a certain iniquity of a man better than the beneficence of his wife. 
17:37	A good man is said to be happy with his wife; but a good woman is hardly ever read; either he will be obstinate or he will be adulterous, and he will not suffer his own husband to be near him. 
17:38	The strong male will take everything, and the testicle conquers all subjects. Who can fill the vessel with the spouses? For one woman tires the people. 
17:39	The insatiable womb does not fail, nor does one man restore one woman; In this way the woman subjects herself to many things, and she who is still thirsty does not say that it is enough. 
17:40	Who will satisfy him through intercourse? Those who congregate too much incur death, and no one will serve him at will, so that he may repay a carnal debt. 
17:41	In this way most of them become adulterers; it is tiring to live as many marriages as possible: since no woman can be sufficient, I say that it is expedient for no one to marry. 
17:42	The tongue is a sword in a woman's mouth, with which a man is struck as by lightning; through this gaiety he fled from the man, the house was overturned by the southern whirlwind. 
17:43	Little faith remains in the spouse, after pride has taken the horns; from the tongue of the spouse’s perverse and harmful lightning’s, clouds, thunders. 
17:44	Smoke, and woman, and drops drive a man from his own house; a man speaks politely, gives soft words, she multiplies disputes and quarrels. 
17:45	The will of the spouse is always fulfilled; but if he quarrels, weeps, and becomes angry: but the suffering man is overcome by his cry, and gives way to his wife, and goes out of the house. 
17:46	Nothing is more cunning than a serpent's head; and nothing is more wicked than a wicked spouse; for I would rather have dwelt with the lions than have been the partner of a wicked spouse. 
17:47	Death is more bitter than any punishment; yet a woman is more cruel than death; for death passes away as a shorter hour, but death is overtaken by a longer languor. 
17:48	Taking a wife and accepting death; when he thinks he is living, then he begins to die: he conceives the tedium of living in his mind, and when it is dead, life soon begins. 
17:49	He who is with his spouse is always afflicted, and desiring to die is forced to languish. 
17:50	What shall I say briefly about marriage? Certainly either tartar or purgatory. There is no peace or leisure in Tartarus, nor is there any remedy for the pain of the spouses. 
17:51	The Tartars entered the marriage; there is a woman in the place of fury, born who devour like beasts; difficult and multifarious punishments. 
17:52	Who can bear troubles, various labors and insults to their spouses? Labor and weariness remain after marriage; Goliath, therefore, run away from your wife. 
17:53	After these things, when I had finished my message to the angel, touching the epistles and the gospel, to those who were drawing me from the fire, I answered briefly, (I agree with you.)
18:1	The pontifical horse is, in a certain light, blind, indolent and old, a biter, an unjust runner; bad for the sake of the horse, and he keeps no fair way, hobbles on the plain, and does not rise with a sound hoof: if he did not strike from the top of the fence, and if he carried the master at a better pace, we could not find anything wrong with the horse in him. 
19:1	The pontiff's foam, the priest's sackcloth, the dirty dung, who gave me in the snow a cloak without a feather. Tell me, with a cloak, thin, thin, and without skin, if you can, drive away the rain and the fury of the storm. Mantellus says, (I have neither hair nor wool; I command fuller, but I am Jacob, not Esau.)
20:1	Goliard. Uninvited I come ready to dine; so I was fated never to be called to dinner. Bishop. I do not care for the vagabonds who search the countryside, the countryside, and the villages; my table does not want such members. I do not want you; I avoid those who are like you: yet you will get me against my will by asking for bread. [Wash, wipe, sit, eat, drink, wipe, retire.]
21:1	Goliard. If you give me clothes that can drive away the plagues, the gods are my witnesses, we will be Pylades and Orestes. Bishop. If after this you ask for money or a cloak, it is not a crime if someone gives you a blow. If it is given to you with a happy face that is received, say that it is enough that it is given to you freely. If there is nothing that has been given to you that is acceptable to you, that has been distributed with you, make sure that it is ready. Conde, hold what you have; if you show, then you will lose yours. 
22:1	When everything was in a state of confusion, after various feasts and after much wine, after the pleasures of the stomach had been indulged, my companions left me already buried in wine. 
22:2	But I, in spirit and not in heavy flesh, was raptured and entered the third heaven, where I listened to something most sacred, which I afterwards opened in the council of the brethren. 
22:3	While God was indeed seated on high, and my spirit began to tremble, behold, Thetis and Lyeus enter into the judgment, and both are plaintiff and defendant. 
22:4	Thetis boasts a great deal at the beginning, saying, (Praise and honor are deservedly given to me, since I am the one from whom the engine of the world was established, and the spirit of God was carried over me.)
22:5	To this Bacchus begins to relate such things,
22:6	(God greatly increased my praise when he asked me to drink from the well; indeed, David testified, he drank from the stream and therefore lifted up his head.)
22:7	(When the Lord gave fruit on the vine, He did not mix the grapes with water; therefore those who drink wine mixed with water are against the Lord or against Christ.)
22:8	(The Nazarene, satisfied with me, rejects the wine, when the medicine of life is placed in me, which is evident from the teaching of the Gospel, when the angel healed the sick in the pool.)
22:9	(Finally, if the Nazarene constantly licks you, how salutary my effect is clear, since the Apostle and God teach that Timothy drank me because of his stomach.)
22:10	(Naaman's medicines were humane, and could not benefit his ill-healthy skin, but the prophetic words were not in vain, after he had washed seven times in the Jordan.)
22:11	(Caesus, a Jerusalemite, seen by the robbers, seen by the priest, seen by the Levites, would perhaps have remained unheeded, had not the wounds been smeared with wine.)
22:12	(When you were the cause of the bad weather, I was exposed to your rage; because, as it is read, the impetuousness of water, not of Lyus, gladdens the city of God.)
22:13	(You are like a lowly person from a fountain on the plain, I am like a noble person sending you into the secret place; the cattle of the country can drink you in the mountains, but my drink makes the human heart happy). 
22:14	(The tree which is near the flowing water yields temperate fruit to the cultivator; it brings forth the fruits of the crop to him who comes from afar, cold water benefits the thirsty man.)
22:15	(It is quite contemptible and quite needy, if by any chance a supper is taken without wine: the penalty of poverty does not terrify men, when their storehouses are full of them.)
22:16	(I unlocked the first part of faith when I washed the Son of God in the Jordan; and I completed the figures of the old law when I emanated from his side outside). 
22:17	(The guilty person came to the grace of baptism through me; through me God unites many people to himself; it was not, as it is read, water, but liquid, of which the Lord said, 'This is my blood.')
22:18	(I am the mother of beauty, I am the mother of brightness, and I offer myself freely to all; I remove the pestilence of drought from the meadows, when the God of majesty thunders from above.)
22:19	(However tasty, however expensive, food served without wine is bitter; the poor and avaricious rejoices in your cup, but the cup is intoxicating, O how excellent I am!)
22:20	(I temper the flames of the sun in the frosts, I give drink to the birds, the help of the mill, and I circle the world with the waves of the sea, where there are reptiles of which there is no end.)
22:21	(I went from the palm trees to the press, and from there I entered the growing belly, passed through many kinds of vessels, and sought rest among drinkers.)
22:22	(The reason is confused, the eyes are blinded, by those who linger too much on your drinks; while you are entering politely, they are bitten outside, and poisoned as if by the bite of a king.)
22:23	(Thy evil drink, the drink was changed, when Jesus was invited to the wedding;) (Through thee Noah sleeps with his thighs naked, whence he is cursed by mocking his birth; through thee the infamous birth came forth to the world, when he was intoxicated on the mountains of Lot.)
22:24	(Thou deceiver of all, to whom, while thou pretends to be placid behind the waves, thou dost attack the subjects; above other honorable things, David asks, 'Let him not sink,' saying, 'the storm waters me!')
22:25	(The discipline of wine is forbidden to Paul's man, as a vile factory of luxury; no virtue is worshiped where wines reign, by the law of which the prudent are drawn away from the divine.)
22:26	(The wine of lust is seized upon thee, when the incestuous son of Jacob is prayed to; who is poured out like a watery liquid is rebuked, while by him the uncle's thor is stained.)
22:27	(I am assimilated to wisdom, whose soul's breast I have drunk from the fountain, by which hearts that have once been fertile, will no longer be afflicted by repeated thirst.)
22:28	(The bridegroom counting each of the bride's jewels, so that the kisses of both lips are joined together, he places the wine above other goods, which are better than the bride's cheap ones.)
22:29	(I am one of the witnesses of the earth commended to the heavenly species of the Trinity, whence the source of charity is expressed through me, springing forth into the life of eternity.)
22:30	(During which the day of grace dawned upon the nations, when he brought the bride to himself from the vineyard of wines, the bridegroom brought him into the wine cellar, where he arranged charity in the order that it should be.)
22:31	(He went out on the right side of the temple, through me he is punished if anyone has transgressed, the act of almsgiving was mystically granted to me by which the fire of crimes was crushed.)
22:32	(Indeed, strength is represented by you in the glass, if by me the remorse of the heart is signified, because the shame of a virgin is twinned with God, when the guilty is crushed and justified.)
22:33	(If those who have hitherto worshiped false gods, if they make themselves reborn through my fountains, the king in heaven will regard and absolve the body, and he who dwells in the heavens will not mock them.)
22:34	(The sacrifice of the guilty is prepared from wine, the robes of the blessed are diluted in wine, the wine of Jacob is added as the sum of the goods, the wine is finally drunk in the kingdom of heaven.)
22:35	(Anyone who looks at my praise willingly, a cup of cold water considers what it deserves, water is read above the heavens, therefore it is given, that from the merits of the wine will never be exceeded.)
22:36	(The vine did not forsake the wine in order to reign, he set the wine here that would not change, the bridegroom mixed the wine with the bride, the belly spits up the water, the broken cup tasted.)
22:37	(When Israel was leading himself in a truncated chain of servitude, the Lord separated him by a miracle, so that they might sing a glorious song to God.)
22:38	(Wine, man, do not listen to a miracle, he makes his people secure and noble in a surprising way: he gives eloquence to the dumb, jumps to the contracted ones, and makes them not feel between the blows. When he is at last refreshed by my drink, then he sings 'Glory to God in the highest.')
22:39	If anyone ceases to be from Lye for any reason, there is no song or praise from him; if at last my drink be restored then he sings 'Glory to God in the highest.'" 
22:40	At this voice, behold, the birds, excited, as if supported by the accounts of the wine, cried out with louder voices, (Peace on earth to men of good will.)
22:41	By whose voices, at last, after the examination, I was awakened, I lifted the veil of my dream, and praised the father in harmony, the begotten, the flame, ending in the glory of God the father. - Amen. 
