Gospel of the Marcion 
4:16	And he came to Nazareth, and went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and sat down.
4:21	And he began to speak to them, and all wondered at the words which proceeded out of his mouth.
4:23	And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country.
4:24	???
4:25	But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land;
4:26	But unto none of them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow.
4:27	And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.
4:28	And they were all filled with wrath in the synagogue,
4:29	And rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong.
4:30	But he passing through the midst of them went his way.
4:31	In the fifteenth year of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judea, Jesus descended [out of heaven] into Capernaum, a city in Galilee, and was teaching [in the synagogue] on the Sabbath days; And they were astonished at his doctrine, for his word was in authority.
4:33	And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, saying,
4:34	Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.
4:35	And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.  And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not.
4:36	And they were all amazed, and spoke among themselves, saying, What a word is this!  For with authority and power he commands the unclean spirits, and they come out.
4:37	And the fame of him went out into every place of the country round about.
4:38	???
4:39	???
4:40	Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.
4:41	And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art the Son of God.  And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak.
4:42	And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from them.
4:43	And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent.
4:44	And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
5:1	And it came to pass, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret,
5:2	And saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets.
5:3	And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land.  And he sat down, and taught the people out of the ship.
5:4	Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.
5:5	And Simon answering said unto him, Teacher, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net.
5:6	And when they had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake.
5:7	And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them.  And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink.
5:8	When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.
5:9	For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken:
5:10	And so was also James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men alive.
5:11	And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed him.
5:12	And it came to pass, behold a man full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.
5:13	And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him.
5:14	And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, that this may be a testimony to you.
5:15	But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.
5:16	And he was withdrawing himself into the wilderness, and praying.
5:17	And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them.
5:18	And, behold, men brought in a bed a man that was palsied: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him.
5:19	And not finding what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiles with his couch into the midst before Jesus.
5:20	And seeing their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.
5:21	And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaks blasphemies?  Who can forgive sins, but God alone?
5:22	But when Jesus perceiving their reasonings, answered and said unto them, what reason ye in your hearts?
5:23	Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?
5:24	But that ye may know that the Son of man hath authority upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the palsied man), I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thine house.
5:25	And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.
5:26	And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day.
5:27	And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me.
5:28	And he left all, rose up, and followed him.
5:29	And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.
5:30	But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?
5:31	And Jesus answering said unto them, they that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick.
5:32	I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
5:33	And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink?
5:34	And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bride chamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?
5:35	But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.
5:36	And he spoke also a parable unto them; No man puts a piece of a new garment upon an old garment; otherwise both the new makes a rent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agrees not with the old.
5:37	And no man puts new wine into old wineskins; else the new wine will burst the skins, and itself will be spilled, and the skins will perish.
5:38	But new wine must be put into new wine-skins; and both are preserved.
5:39	???
6:1	And it came to pass on the second Sabbath after the first, that he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.
6:2	And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful to do on the Sabbath days?
6:3	And Jesus answering them said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was hungry, and they which were with him;
6:4	How he went into the house of God, and did take and eat the showbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the priests alone?
6:5	And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord even of the Sabbath.
6:6	And it came to pass also on another Sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was withered.
6:7	And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the Sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.
6:8	But he knew their reasonings, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth.
6:9	Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the Sabbath days to do good, or to do evil?  To save life, or to destroy it?
6:10	And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand.  And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
6:11	And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.
6:12	And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.
6:13	And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles;
6:14	Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,
6:15	Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, 
6:16	And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also became a traitor.
6:17	And he came down among them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;
6:18	And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.
6:19	And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all.
6:20	And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.
6:21	Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled.  Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.
6:22	Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.
6:23	Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.
6:24	But woe unto you that are rich! For ye have received your consolation.
6:25	Woe unto you that are full! For ye shall hunger.  Woe unto you that laugh now! For ye shall mourn and weep.
6:26	Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you!  For so did their fathers to the false prophets.
6:27	But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you,
6:28	Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you.
6:29	And unto him that smites thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloke forbid not to take thy coat also.
6:30	Give to every man that asks of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again.
6:31	And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.
6:32	For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye?  For sinners also love those that love them.
6:33	And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye?  For sinners also do even the same.
6:34	And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? For sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
6:35	But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.
6:36	Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.
6:37	Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:
6:38	Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom.  For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.
6:39	And he spoke a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? Shall they not both fall into the ditch?
6:40	The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master.
6:41	And why behold thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceives not the beam that is in thine own eye?
6:42	Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholds not the beam that is in thine own eye?  Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye.
6:43	For there is no good tree that produces corrupt fruit; nor corrupt tree that produces good fruit.
6:44	For each tree is known by its own fruit.  For of thorns they do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.
6:45	The good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth that which is good; and the evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.
6:46	And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?
6:47	Everyone that cometh to me, and hears my sayings, and doeth them, I will shew you to whom he is like:
6:48	He is like a man building house, who dug and went deep, and laid a foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and had no strength to shake it: for it was founded upon a rock. 
6:49	But he that hears, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.
7:1	Now when he had ended all his sayings in the ears of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
7:2	And a certain centurion's servant was sick, and going to die; and he was precious to him.
7:3	And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him elders of the Jews, asking him that he would come and heal his servant.
7:4	And when they came to Jesus, they besought him earnestly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this:
7:5	For he loves our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue.
7:6	Then Jesus went with them.  And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou should enter under my roof: 
7:7	Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my boy shall be healed.
7:8	For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goes; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.
7:9	And when Jesus heard these things, he marveled at him, and turned, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, not even in Israel I have not found so great faith.
7:10	And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the sick servant whole.
7:11	And it came to pass the day after, that he was going into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples were going with him, and a great multitude.
7:12	Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, a dead man was being carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and a considerable multitude of the city was with her.
7:13	And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not.
7:14	And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still.  And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.
7:15	And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak.  And he delivered him to his mother.
7:16	And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people.
7:17	And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about.
7:18	And the disciples of John told him of all these things.  And John was scandalized.
7:19	And John calling unto him a certain two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that cometh? Or look we for another?
7:20	And when the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? Or look we for another?
7:21	And in that same hour he cured many of infirmities and plagues and of evil spirits; and unto many blind he gave sight.
7:22	Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor have good tidings been announced to them.
7:23	And blessed is he, if he [John] shall not be offended in me.
7:24	And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the multitudes concerning John. What went you out into the wilderness to gaze at? A reed shaken with the wind?
7:25	But what are ye come out to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are in gorgeous apparel, and delicacy, are in kings' courts.
7:26	But what went you out for to see? A prophet?  Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet.
7:27	This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.
7:28	For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women a greater prophet than John the Baptist, there is none: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.
7:29	And all the people, when they heard it, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
7:30	But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God unto themselves, being not baptized of him.
7:31	And the Lord said, whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation?  And to what are they like?
7:32	They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye did not dance; we have mourned to you, and ye did not weep.
7:33	For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a demon.
7:34	The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!
7:35	And wisdom was justified of all her children.
7:36	And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house, and reclined to eat.
7:37	And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that he was reclining in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment,
7:38	And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.
7:39	Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spoke within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that touches him: for she is a sinner.
7:40	And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee.  And he said, Teacher, say on.
7:41	A certain money-lender had two debtors: the one owed five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
7:42	And when they had nothing to pay, he forgave them both.  Tell me therefore, which of them will love him more?
7:43	Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave the more. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.
7:44	And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Sees thou this woman? I entered into thine house: water for my feet thou gavest not; but she hath wetted my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.
7:45	A kiss thou gives me not: but she since the time I came in hath not ceased kissing my feet.
7:46	My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment.
7:47	For the sake of which I say unto thee, her sins which are many are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loves little.
7:48	And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.]
7:49	And they that were reclining with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that even forgives sins?
7:50	And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go into peace. 
8:1	And it came to pass afterward, that he made his way through every city and village, preaching and announcing as glad tidings the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him.
8:2	And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, from whom went seven demons had gone out, 
8:3	And Joanna the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their possessions.
8:4	And when a great multitude were coming together, and they of every city were come to him, he spoke by a parable:
8:5	A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the heaven devoured it.
8:6	And other fell upon the rock; and when sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture.
8:7	And other fell in the midst of the thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it.
8:8	And other fell on the good ground, and when sprung up, it produced fruit an hundredfold. And when he said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
8:9	And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?
8:10	And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to the rest in parables; that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand.
8:11	???
8:12	???
8:13	???
8:14	???
8:15	???
8:16	No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, covers it with a vessel, or puts it under a bed; but sets it on a lamp-stand, that they which enter in may see the light.
8:17	For there is no secret thing, that shall not be made manifest; nor hidden, that shall not be known and come into view.
8:18	Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not,
8:19	even what he seems to have shall be taken away.  
8:20	And it was told him by certain [people] which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see thee.
8:21	And he answered and said unto them, [Who is] My mother and my brethren?  My mother and my brethren are these which hear My words, and do [them].
8:22	Now it came to pass on one of the days, that he went into a ship with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake.  And they launched forth.
8:23	But as they sailed he fell asleep.  And there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy.
8:24	And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Teacher, Teacher, we perish.  And he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water.  And they ceased, and there was a calm.
8:25	And he said unto them, Where is your faith?  And they were frightened and wondered, saying one to another, who then is this?  For he commands even the winds and water, and they obey him?
8:26	And they sailed down to the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee.
8:27	And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, which had demons [a] long time, and wore no cloke, neither abode in a house, but among the tombs.
8:28	When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high?  I beseech thee, torment me not.
8:29	(For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man.  For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept guarded and bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands asunder, and was driven of the demon into the deserts).
8:30	And Jesus asked him, saying, what is thy name?  And he said, Legion: because many demons were entered into him.
8:31	And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the abyss.
8:32	And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they besought him that he would allow them to enter into them.  And he allowed them. 
8:33	Then went the demons out of the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the lake, and were choked.
8:34	When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went and told it in the city and in the country.
8:35	Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the demons were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.
8:36	They also which saw it told them by what means he that was possessed of the demons was saved.
8:37	Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about asked him to depart from them; for they were holden with great fear: and he entered into the ship, and returned back again.
8:38	Now the man, from whom the demons were departed, besought him that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying,
8:39	Return to thine own house, and recount how great things God hath done unto thee.  And he went his way, publishing throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him. 
8:40	And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the multitude welcomed him: for they were all waiting for him.
8:41	And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house:
8:42	For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying.  And as he went the multitudes thronged him. 
8:43	And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any,
8:44	Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: and immediately her issue of blood stanched. 
8:45	And Jesus said, who touched me?  When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Teacher, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and says thou, who touched me?
8:46	And Jesus said, somebody hath touched me: for I perceived that power had gone out of me.
8:47	And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what reason she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately.
8:48	And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath saved thee; go into peace.
8:49	While he yet spoke, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Teacher.
8:50	But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not: believe only, and she shall be saved.
8:51	And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in, save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden.
8:52	And all were weeping, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleeps.
8:53	And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.
8:54	And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise.
8:55	And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and he commanded something be given her to eat.
8:56	And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done.
9:1	Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all the demons, and to cure diseases.
9:2	And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.
9:3	And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece.
9:4	And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.
9:5	And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.
9:6	And they departed, and went through the villages in order, announcing the glad tidings, and healing everywhere.
9:7	Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen from the dead;
9:8	And of some, that Elijah had appeared; and by others, that a prophet, one of the original ones, was risen again.
9:9	And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things?  And he desired to see him.
9:10	And the apostles returned, and declared unto him all that they had done.  And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert place of a city called Bethsaida.
9:11	And the multitudes perceived it, and followed him: and he received them, and spoke unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing.
9:12	And when the day began to decline, and the twelve came, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about, and lodge, and fetch victuals: for we are in a desert place.
9:13	But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat.  And they said, we have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy food for all this people.
9:14	For they were about five thousand men.  And he said to his disciples, Make them recline in companies by fifties.
9:15	And they did so, and made them all recline.
9:16	And he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
9:17	And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up that remained to them of fragments twelve baskets.
9:18	And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?  
9:19	They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elijah; and others say, that one some prophet of the original ones is risen again.
9:20	He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am?  Peter answering said, The Christ of God.
9:21	And he straightly reprimanded them, and commanded them to tell none such a thing; 
9:22	Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day.
9:23	And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.
9:24	For whosoever wishes to save his life shall lose it: but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.
9:25	For what is a man profited, if he gain the whole world, and lose or forfeit his own self?
9:26	For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed.  When he shall come in his own glory, and in the glory of his Father's and of the holy angels.
9:27	But I tell you truly, there be some of those that stand here, which shall by no means taste death, till they see the kingdom of God. 
9:28	And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.
9:29	And [it came to past] as he prayed, the appearance of his countenance was different, and his raiment white, flashing like lightning.
9:30	And, behold, there stood with him two men, which were Moses and Elias,
9:31	seen in his glory.
9:32	Now Peter and they that were with him were weighed down with sleep: but when they were fully awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him.
9:33	And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Teacher, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said.
9:34	But while he said these things, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they entered into the cloud.
9:35	And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.
9:36	And when the voice came, Jesus was found alone.  And they were silent, and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen.
9:37	And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were come down from the mountain, a great multitude met him.
9:38	And, behold, a man from the multitude cried out, saying, Teacher, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is my only begotten.  
9:39	And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly cries out; and it convulses him with foam, and bruising him hardly departs from him.
9:40	And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not.
9:41	And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.
9:42	And as he was yet a coming, the demon rent him, and convulsed him.  And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the boy, and delivered him again to his father.
9:43	And they were all amazed at the majesty of God.  And as they all wondered at all things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples, 
9:44	Take ye into your ears these sayings: for the Son of man is going to be delivered into the hands of men.
9:45	But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them that they should not perceive it: and they feared to ask him about that saying.
9:46	Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be greatest.
9:47	And Jesus, perceiving the reasoning of their heart, took a child, and set it [next to] himself, and said unto them,
9:48	Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receives me: and whosoever shall receive me receives him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same shall be great.
9:49	And John answered and said, Teacher, we saw one casting out demons in thy name; and we hindered him, because he follows not with us.
9:50	And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not against you is for you.
9:51	And it came to pass, when the days of his taking up were being fulfilled, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem,
9:52	And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, so as to make ready for him.
9:53	And they did not receive him, because his face was going to Jerusalem.
9:54	And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and to consume them, even as Elijah did?
9:55	But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, you know not what manner of spirit ye are of.
9:56	For the Son of man came not to destroy men's lives, but to save them.  And they went to another village.
9:57	And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goes.
9:58	And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and the birds of the heaven have lodging places; but the Son of man hath not where he may lay his head. 
9:59	And he said unto another, Follow me.  But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.
9:60	Jesus said unto him, Leave the dead to bury their own dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God.
9:61	And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house.
9:62	And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
10:1	And after these things the Lord appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he himself was about to come.
10:2	Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the laborers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he may send forth laborers into his harvest.
10:3	Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.
10:4	Carry neither purse, nor wallet, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way.
10:5	And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house.
10:6	And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn to you again.
10:7	And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as they give: for the laborer is worthy of his hire.  Go not from house to house.
10:8	And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you:
10:9	And heal the sick therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
10:10	But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go out into the streets thereof, and say, 
10:11	Even the very dust of your city, which clave to us, we do wipe off against you: notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
10:12	But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for that city.
10:13	Woe unto thee, Chorazin! Woe unto thee, Bethsaida!  For if the powers had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
10:14	But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment, than for you.
10:15	And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven?  Thou shalt be thrust down unto Hades.
10:16	He that hears you hears me; and he that despises you despises me; and he that despises me despises him that sent me.
10:17	And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject unto us through thy name.
10:18	And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fallen from heaven.
10:19	Behold, I give unto you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.
10:20	Notwithstanding, in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written in the heavens.
10:21	In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, Lord of heaven, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, Father; for so it was well-pleasing before thee.
10:22	All things were delivered to me by my Father: and no man knows who the Father is, but the Son, and who the Son is, but the Father, and he to whomsoever the Son wishes to reveal him.
10:23	And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see what ye see:
10:24	For I tell you, that prophets did not see what ye see. 
10:25	And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Teacher, doing what shall I obtain life?
10:26	But he said unto him, what is written in the law? How reads thou?
10:27	And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God from all thy heart, and from all thy soul, and from all thy strength, and from all thy mind; and thy neighbor as thyself.
10:28	And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.
10:29	But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, and who is my neighbor?
10:30	And Jesus answering said, a certain man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him, and beat him, leaving him just half dead. 
10:31	And by chance there came down a certain priest in that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. 
10:32	And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and saw him, and passed by on the other side.
10:33	But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came down to him: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, 
10:34	And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring on oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.
10:35	And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two denarii, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spends more, when I come again, I will repay thee.
10:36	Which now of these three, seems to thee to have been a neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves?
10:37	And he said, He that shewed mercy on him.  Jesus therefore said unto him, Go, and do thou likewise. 
10:38	Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.
10:39	And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.
10:40	But Martha was distracted about much serving, and came up to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister did leave me to serve alone?  Bid her therefore that she help me. 
10:41	And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art anxious and troubled about many things:
10:42	But there is need of one: and Mary chose that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.
11:1	And it came to pass whilst he was in a certain place praying to the Father, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
11:2	And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Father, let thy Holy Spirit come upon us, Hallowed be thy name.  Thy kingdom come.  Thy will be done, as in heaven, so on earth.
11:3	Give us day by day our bread for the coming day.
11:4	And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us.  And lead us not into temptation.
11:5	And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves; 
11:6	Since my friend is come unto me from a journey, and I have nothing to set before him?
11:7	And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.
11:8	I say unto you, even if he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needs.
11:9	And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.
11:10	For every one that asks receives; and he that seeks finds; and to him that knocks it shall be opened.
11:11	But of which of you that is a father shall his son ask a loaf he will give him a stone?  Or a fish, and he instead of a fish will give him a serpent?
11:12	Or if he shall ask an egg, will he give him a scorpion?
11:13	If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your Father from heaven give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?
11:14	And he was casting out a demon, and it was dumb.  And it came to pass, when the demon was gone out, the dumb spoke; and the multitudes marveled.
11:15	But some of them said, He casts out demons through Beelzebub the chief of the demons.
11:16	And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.
11:17	But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falls.
11:18	And if Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom be established?  Because ye say that I cast out demons in Beelzebub.
11:19	And if I in Beelzebub cast out demons, in whom do your sons cast them out?  Therefore shall they be your judges.
11:20	But if I with the finger of God cast out demons, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you.
11:21	When a strong man fully armed keeps his palace, his goods are in peace.
11:22	But when the stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him all his whole armor wherein he trusted, and divides his spoils.
11:23	He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathers not with me scatters.
11:24	When the unclean spirit is gone out from the man, he goes through waterless places, seeking rest; and finding none, he said, I will return into my house whence I came out.
11:25	And when he cometh, he finds it swept and garnished.
11:26	Then goes he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first.
11:27	And it came to pass, as he said these things, a certain woman out of the multitude lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the breasts which thou didst suck.
11:28	But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear [my word], and keep it.
11:29	And when the multitudes were gathering thick together, he began to say, This is an evil generation: it seeks a sign; and there shall no sign be given it.
11:30	???
11:31	???
11:32	???
11:33	No man, when he hath lighted a lamp, puts it into a secret place, neither under the bushel, but on the lampstand, that they which come in may see the light.
11:34	The lamp of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when it is evil, thy body also is full of darkness.
11:35	Look therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness.
11:36	If therefore thy whole body be full of light, having no part dark, it shall be wholly full of light, as when the lamp with its gleam doth give thee light.
11:37	And as he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to breakfast with him: and he went in, and lay down.
11:38	And when the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that he had not first washed before the breakfast.
11:39	And the Lord said unto him, now do ye Pharisees clean the outside of the cup and the platter; but your inside is full of extortion and wickedness.
11:40	Foolish ones, did not he that made the outside make the inside also?
11:41	But give as alms the things in your power; and, behold, all things are clean unto you.
11:42	But woe unto you, Pharisees!  For ye tithe mint and rue and every herb, and pass over the calling and the love of God: but these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.
11:43	Woe unto you, Pharisees!  For ye love the first seat in the synagogues, and the greetings in the markets. 
11:44	Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!  For ye are as graves which appear not, and the men that walk about over them know it not.
11:45	Then one of the lawyers answering said unto him, Teacher, saying these things thou reproaches us also.
11:46	And he said, Woe unto you also, lawyers!  For ye lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.
11:47	Woe unto you! For ye build the sepulchers of the prophets, but your fathers killed them.
11:48	Truly ye are witnesses and consent to the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, but ye build their sepulchers.
11:49	???
11:50	???
11:51	???
11:52	Woe unto you, lawyers!  For ye took away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in you hindered.
11:53	And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to press upon him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of more things:
11:54	Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.
12:1	In the meantime, when there were gathered together tens of thousands of the multitudes, insomuch that they trod one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples, First be ye on your guard against of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.
12:2	For there is nothing covered up, that shall not be revealed; and hidden that shall not be known.
12:3	Wherefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light; and that which ye have spoken to the ear in the chambers shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.
12:4	And I say unto you my friends, be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after this have not power to do anything further.
12:5	But I will show you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath authority to cast into Gehenna; yea, I say unto you, Fear him.
12:6	???
12:7	???
12:8	But I say unto you, whoever shall confess in me before men, in him shall the Son of man also confess before God:
12:9	But he that denies me in the sight of men shall be denied in the sight of God. 
12:10	And everyone, who shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemes against the Holy Spirit it shall not be forgiven.
12:11	And when they bring you up before the synagogues, and unto the rulers, and authorities, be not anxious how or what thing ye shall answer, or what ye shall say:
12:12	For the Holy Spirit shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say.
12:13	And one out of the multitude said unto him, Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me.
12:14	And he said unto him, Man, who appointed me a judge or a divider over you?
12:15	And he said unto them, Take heed, and guard yourselves from covetousness: for not in a man's abundance consists his life out of his possessions.
12:16	And he spoke a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:
12:17	And he reasoned within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have not where to collect my fruits?
12:18	And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I collect all my fruits and my goods.
12:19	And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
12:20	But God said unto him, Foolish one, this night they require thy soul from thee: and the things which thou hast prepared, whose shall they be?
12:21	So is he that lay up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.
12:22	And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Be not anxious for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on.
12:23	The life is more than the food, and the body than the raiment.
12:24	Consider the ravens, that they sow not nor reap; which have not store chamber nor barn; and God feed them: how much rather do ye excel the birds!
12:25	And which of you with being anxious can add to his stature one cubit?
12:26	If ye then be not able to do even a very little thing, why are ye anxious about the rest? 
12:27	Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, nor spin; yet I say unto you, not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed like one of these.
12:28	[If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field, and tomorrow is cast into the oven;] how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith?
12:29	And seek not you what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.
12:30	For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: but your Father knows that ye have need of these things.
12:31	Notwithstanding seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you. 
12:32	Fear not, little flock; for your Father is well pleased to give you the kingdom.
12:33	Sell your possessions, and give alms; make yourselves purses which grow not old, an unfailing treasure in the heavens, where a thief does not come near, nor a moth destroy.
12:34	For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.
12:35	Let your loins be girded about, and your lamps burning; 
12:36	And ye like unto men that wait for their lord, when he shall return from the wedding-feast; that when he cometh and knocks, they may open unto him immediately.
12:37	Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to recline to meat, and shall pass by and serve them.
12:38	And if he shall come in the evening watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.
12:39	And this know, that if the master of the house had known what hour the thief was coming, he would have watched, and not have left his house to be broken through.
12:40	Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not.
12:41	Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speaks thou this parable unto us, or even unto all?
12:42	And the Lord said, who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall set over his household, to give them their portion of food in due season?
12:43	Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.
12:44	Of a truth I say unto you, that he will set him over all his possessions.
12:45	But if that servant shall say in his heart, my lord delays to come, and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidservants, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken;
12:46	The lord of that servant will come in a day when he expects not, and at an hour when he knows not, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unfaithful.
12:47	And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes.  
12:48	But he that knew not, and did things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes.  For to whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required: and to whom they have committed much, of him they will ask the more.
12:49	I came to cast fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be already kindled?
12:50	But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I constrained till it be accomplished!
12:51	Think ye that I am come to give peace on earth?  I tell you, Nay; but rather division: 
12:52	For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.  
12:53	They shall be divided father against son, and son against father; mother against daughter, and daughter against mother; mother in law against her daughter in law, and daughter in law against her mother in law.
12:54	And he said also to the multitudes, When ye see the cloud rising up from the west, straightway ye say There cometh a shower; and it cometh to pass.
12:55	And when ye see a south wind blowing, ye say, There will be scorching heat; and it cometh to pass.
12:56	Ye hypocrites, ye know how to interpret the face of the earth and the heaven; but how is it that ye do not interpret this time?  
12:57	Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?
12:58	For as thou goes with thine adversary before the magistrate, on the way give diligence to be delivered from him; lest he hale thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison.
12:59	I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means depart thence, till thou hast paid the very last lepton. 
13:1	???
13:2	???
13:3	???
13:4	???
13:5	???
13:6	???
13:7	???
13:8	???
13:9	???
13:10	And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath days.
13:11	And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself.
13:12	And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity.
13:13	And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.
13:14	And the ruler of the synagogue answered, being vexed, because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the multitude, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the day of the Sabbath.
13:15	The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering?
13:16	And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the day of the Sabbath?
13:17	And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were put to shame: and all the multitude rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. 
13:18	Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like?  And whereunto shall I liken it?
13:19	It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his own garden; and it grew, and became a great tree; and the birds of the heaven lodged in the branches of it.
13:20	And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?
13:21	It is like unto leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.
13:22	And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and making a journey unto Jerusalem.
13:23	Then one said unto him, Lord, are they few that are being saved?  And he said unto them, 
13:24	Strive to enter in through the narrow gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. 
13:25	When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand outside, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are:
13:26	Then shall ye begin to say, we did eat and drink in thy presence, and thou didst teach in our streets.
13:27	But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of unrighteousness.
13:28	There shall be the weeping and the gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see all the righteous in the kingdom of God, and yourselves thrust out and held back outside.
14:1	And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the Sabbath day, that they were watching him.
14:2	And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy.
14:3	And Jesus answered and spoke unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath day?
14:4	And they held their peace.  And he took him, and healed him, and let him go;
14:5	And he answered and said unto them, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a well, and will not straightway pull him up on the day of the Sabbath?
14:6	And they could not answer him again to these things.
14:7	???
14:8	???
14:9	???
14:10	???
14:11	???
14:12	Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makes a breakfast or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors; lest they also bid thee again, and a recommence be made thee.
14:13	But when thou makes a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind:
14:14	And thou shalt be blessed; for they have nothing wherewith to recompense thee: for it shall be recompensed to thee at the resurrection of the righteous.
14:15	And when one of them that reclined with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.
14:16	But he said unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many:
14:17	And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready.
14:18	And they all with one consent began to make excuse.  The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused.
14:19	And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee, hold me excused.
14:20	And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.
14:21	So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things.  Then the master of the house being moved said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.
14:22	And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou didst command, and yet there is room.
14:23	And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.
14:24	For I say unto you, that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper.
14:25	And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, and said unto them, 
14:26	If any man cometh to me, and doth not abandon his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.
14:27	And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come behind me, cannot be my disciple.
14:28	For which of you, intending to build a tower, sits not down first, and counts the cost, whether he have the things for completion? 
14:29	Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish, all that behold it begin to mock him, 
14:30	Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.
14:31	Or what king, when he is going to encounter another king in war, sits not down first, and consults whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?
14:32	Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends an embassy, and desires conditions of peace.
14:33	So therefore, whosoever he be of you that renounces not all his possessions, he cannot be my disciple.
15:1	Now all the publicans and sinners were coming near unto him, to hear him.
15:2	And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receives sinners, and eats with them.
15:3	And he spoke this parable unto them, saying,
15:4	What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?
15:5	And when he hath found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
15:6	And when he cometh into the house, he calls together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.
15:7	I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in the heaven over one sinner that repents, more than over ninety and nine righteous persons, which have no need of repentance.
15:8	Either what woman having ten drachmas, if she lose one drachma, doth not light a lamp, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?
15:9	And when she hath found it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the drachma which I had lost.
15:10	Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of God over one sinner that repents.
16:1	And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him as wasting his property.
16:2	And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Render the account of thy stewardship; for thou canst not be a steward any longer.
16:3	Then the steward said within himself, what shall I do?  For my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I have not strength to dig; to beg I am ashamed.
16:4	I know what I will do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. 
16:5	And he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owes thou unto my lord?
16:6	And he said, An hundred baths of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bond, and sit down quickly, and write fifty.
16:7	Then said he to another, And how much owes thou?  And he said, An hundred cors of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bond, and write fourscore.
16:8	And the lord commended the steward of unrighteousness, because he did wisely: for the sons of this age are unto their own generation wiser beyond the children of the light.
16:9	And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends out of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye leave, they may receive you into eternal habitations.
16:10	He that is faithful in a very little is faithful in much: and he that is unrighteous in very little is unrighteous also in much. 
16:11	If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will entrust to you the real [mammon]?
16:12	And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another's, who shall give you that which is mine?
16:13	No domestic can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to one, and despise the other.  Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
16:14	And the Pharisees also, who were lovers of money, heard all these things: and they sneered at him.
16:15	And he said unto them, Ye are they which make yourselves righteous in the sight of men; but God knows your hearts: for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.
16:16	The law and the prophets were until John: since that time the kingdom of God is announced as good tidings, and every man forceth into it.
16:17	But it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away, even as the law and the prophets [have passed away], than one tittle of my words to fail.
16:18	Everyone that puts away his wife and married another, committed adultery: and everyone that marries one that is put away from a husband committed adultery.
16:19	There was a certain rich man, and he was clothed in purple and fine linen, faring sumptuously every day:
16:20	And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores, 
16:21	And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: but even the dogs came and licked his sores.
16:22	And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried.
16:23	And in Hades he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and sees Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
16:24	And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame.
16:25	But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receives thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art in anguish.
16:26	And besides all these things, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which wish to cross from hence to you may not be able; neither can they from thence pass through to us.
16:27	But he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou would send him to my father's house: 
16:28	For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
16:29	Abraham said unto him, they have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
16:30	And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one from the dead went unto them, they will repent.
16:31	And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, not even if one from the dead arose, will they be persuaded.
17:1	Then said he unto the disciples, It is inconceivable but that occasions of stumbling will come: but woe unto him, through whom they come!
17:2	It were a gain if he had not been born, or if a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea, rather than that he should cause one of these little ones to stumble.
17:3	Take heed to yourselves: But if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.
17:4	 And if he trespass against thee seven times in the day, and seven times in the day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him.
17:5	And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.
17:6	And the Lord said, if ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye would say unto this mulberry tree, be thou plucked up-rooted, and be thou planted in the sea; and it would have obeyed you.
17:7	But who is there of you, having a servant plowing or keeping sheep, that will say unto him, when he is come from the field, Come straightway and lie down to meat?
17:8	And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?
17:9	Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him?  I think not.
17:10	So likewise do ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you.
17:11	And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.  
17:12	And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off:
17:13	And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.
17:14	And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests.  And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.
17:15	And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God,
17:16	And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.
17:17	And Jesus answering said, Were not the ten cleansed? But where are the nine?
17:18	There are not found that returned to give glory to God but this alien?  And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet, and none of them was healed, but only Naaman the Syrian.
17:19	And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath saved thee.
17:20	And when he was questioned by the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God cometh, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation: 
17:21	Neither shall they say, Lo here! Or, lo there!  For, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.
17:22	And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see it.
17:23	And they shall say to you, Lo here! , or, lo there!  Go not away, nor follow after them.
17:24	For as the lightning, that lightens out of the one part under heaven, shines unto the other part under heaven; so shall also the Son of man be in his day.
17:25	But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation.
17:26	And as it came to pass in the days of Noah, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.
17:27	They ate, they drank, they married, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noah entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.
17:28	Likewise also as it came to pass in the days of Lot; they ate, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built;
17:29	But in the day that Lot went out from Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.
17:30	According to these things shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.
17:31	In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his goods in the house, let him not go down to take them away: and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return to the things behind.
17:32	Remember Lot's wife.
17:33	Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.
17:34	I say unto you, in that night there shall be two men shall be on one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
17:35	Two [women] shall be grinding upon the same stone; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
17:36	Two [men] shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.
17:37	And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, wherever the body is, there will the eagles be gathered together. 
18:1	And he spoke also a parable unto them on the necessity always to pray, and not to faint; Saying,
18:2	There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, and regarded not man:
18:3	And there was a certain widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Right me from my opponent at law.
18:4	And he would not for a time: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, and regard not man;
18:5	Yet because this widow gives me trouble, I will right her, lest by her coming to the end she weary me.
18:6	And the Lord said, Hear what the judge of the unrighteous said.
18:7	And shall not God perform the righting of his elect, which cry unto him day and night, though he be long suffering over them?
18:8	I say unto you that he will perform the righting of them speedily.  Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find the faith on the earth?
18:9	And he spoke this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and accounted nothing of the rest;
18:10	Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
18:11	The Pharisee stood and prayed thus: God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortions, unrighteous, adulterers, or even as this publican.
18:12	I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I get.
18:13	And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up even his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be propitiated to me the sinner.
18:14	I say unto you, this man went down to his house made righteous rather than that one: for everyone that exalted himself shall be humbled; and he that humbles himself shall be exalted.
18:15	And they were bringing unto him also the infants, that he should touch them: but when the disciples saw it, they rebuked them.  
18:16	But Jesus called them unto him, and said, suffer the little children to come unto me, and hinder them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.
18:17	Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter into it.
18:18	And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Teacher, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? 
18:19	And Jesus said unto him, Why calls thou me good?  None is good, save one, even God the Father.  And he the ruler said, 
18:20	I know the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honor thy father and thy mother.
18:21	All these have I have observed from my youth up.
18:22	But when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet one thing is lacking for thee: sell all things, as many as thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.
18:23	And when he heard these things, he became exceeding sorrowful: for he was very rich.
18:24	And when Jesus saw him become exceeding sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!
18:25	For it is easier for a camel to enter through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
18:26	And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?
18:27	And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.
18:28	Then Peter said, lo, we have left all, and followed thee.
18:29	And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake,
18:30	Who shall not receive manifold more in this time, and in the coming age eternal life.
18:31	???
18:32	???
18:33	???
18:34	???
18:35	And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging:
18:36	And when he heard the multitude passing by, he asked what this might be.
18:37	And they told him, that Jesus passes by.
18:38	And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou Son of David, have mercy on me.
18:39	And they which went before rebuked him, that he might be silent: but he cried so much the more, Thou Son of David, have mercy on me.
18:40	And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him, saying, 
18:41	What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee?  And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.  
18:42	And Jesus said unto him, receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee. 
18:43	And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.
19:1	And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.
19:2	And, behold, a man called by the name Zacchaeus, and he was a chief publican, and he was rich.
19:3	And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not from the multitude, because he was little of stature.
19:4	And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him: for he was going to pass through that way.
19:5	And when he came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to-day I must abide at thy house.
19:6	And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.
19:7	And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to lodge with a man that is a sinner.
19:8	And Zacchaeus stood still, and said unto the Lord; Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man by false accusation, I restore fourfold.
19:9	And Jesus said unto him, this day is salvation come to this house,
19:10	For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
19:11	And as they heard these things, he added and spoke a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was going to appear immediately.
19:12	He said therefore, a certain nobleman went into a distant country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return. 
19:13	And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Trade till I come.
19:14	But his citizens hated him, and sent his embassy after him, saying, we do not wish this man to reign over us.
19:15	And it came to pass, that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, that he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he gave the money, that he might know what trade every man had accomplished.
19:16	And the first came before him, saying, Lord, thy mina hath wrought ten minas more.
19:17	And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou was faithful in a very little, be thou holding authority over ten cities.
19:18	And the second came, saying, Lord, thy mina hath gained five minas.
19:19	And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.
19:20	And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy mina, which I have kept laid up in a napkin:
19:21	For I feared thee, because thou art an austere man: thou takes up that thou layed not down, and reaps that thou sows not.
19:22	And he said unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant.  Knew thou that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I sowed not?
19:23	Wherefore then gives thou not my money into the bank, and I would have come and exacted it with interest?
19:24	And he said unto them that stood by, Take from him the mina, and give it to him that hath ten minas.
19:25	And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten minas.
19:26	For I say unto you, That unto everyone which hath shall be given; and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him.
19:27	But those mine enemies, that did not wish me to reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.
19:28	And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem.
19:29	???
19:30	???
19:31	???
19:32	???
19:33	???
19:34	???
19:35	???
19:36	???
19:37	???
19:38	???
19:39	???
19:40	???
19:41	???
19:42	???
19:43	???
19:44	???
19:45	???
19:46	???
19:47	And he was teaching daily in the temple.  But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him, 
19:48	And could not find what they might do: for all the people were very attentive to hear him.
20:1	And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he was teaching the people in the temple, and announcing the glad tidings, there came upon him the chief priests and the scribes with the elders,
20:2	And spoke unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority does thou these things?  Or who is he that gave thee this authority?
20:3	And he answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one word and tell me: 
20:4	The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?
20:5	And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then believed ye him not?
20:6	But if we say, Of men; all the people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.
20:7	And they answered, that they knew not whence it was.
20:8	And Jesus said unto them, neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.
20:9	???
20:10	???
20:11	???
20:12	???
20:13	???
20:14	???
20:15	???
20:16	???
20:17	???
20:18	???
20:19	And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him; and they feared the people.
20:20	And they watched him, and sent forth spies, feigning themselves to be righteous men, that they might take hold of his speech, in order to deliver him up unto the rule and authority of the governor.
20:21	And they asked him, saying, Teacher, we know that thou says and teaches rightly, and accepts not a countenance, but of a truth teaches the way of God.
20:22	Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar, or not?
20:23	But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?
20:24	Shew me a denarius. Whose image and superscription hath it?  They answered and said, Caesar's.
20:25	And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things of Caesar, and unto God the things of God.
20:26	And they were not able to take hold of his saying before the people: and they marveled at his answer, and held their peace.
20:27	And there came to him certain of the Sadducees, they which deny that there is any resurrection; and they asked him, saying, 
20:28	Teacher, Moses wrote unto us, that if any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die childless, that his brother should take the wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.
20:29	There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and died childless.
20:30	And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.
20:31	And the third took her; and likewise the seven also left no children, and died.
20:32	Last of all the woman died also.
20:33	In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife of them does she become?  For the seven had her as a wife.
20:34	And Jesus answered and said unto them, the sons of this age marry, and are given in marriage:
20:35	But they whom God accounted worthy of that age, to obtain the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage:
20:36	Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the sons of God, being the children of the resurrection.
20:37	???
20:38	???
20:39	Then certain of the scribes answering said, Teacher, thou hast well said.
20:40	And they did not any longer venture to ask him anything.
20:41	And he said unto them, How say they that the Christ is David's son? 
20:42	And David himself said in the book of Psalms, The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 
20:43	Till I make thine enemies the footstool of thy feet.
20:44	David therefore calls him Lord, and how is he then his son?
20:45	And when all the people were hearing him, he said unto his disciples,
20:46	Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love salutations in the markets, and the first seats in the synagogues, and the first rooms at feasts;
20:47	Which eat up the houses of widows, and for a pretext make long prayers: the same shall receive greater condemnation.
21:1	And he looked up, and saw the rich men that were casting their gifts into the treasury. 
21:2	And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two lepta.
21:3	And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all:
21:4	For all these did out of their super-abundance cast in unto the offerings of God: but she out of her want hath cast in all the living that she had.
21:5	And as some spoke about the temple, that it was adorned with goodly stones and offerings, he said, 
21:6	As for these things which ye behold, the days will come, in the which there shall not be left a stone upon a stone, that shall not be thrown down.  
21:7	And they asked him, saying, Teacher, when then shall these things be?  And what shall be the sign, when these things are going to take place?
21:8	And he said, See that ye be not led astray: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am he; and the time is come near: go ye not therefore after them.
21:9	And when ye shall hear of wars and tumults, be not terrified: for these things must first come to pass; but the end is not immediately.
21:10	Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: 
21:11	And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and terrors and great signs shall there be from heaven.
21:12	But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
21:13	And it shall turn out to you for a testimony.
21:14	Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before how to answer:
21:15	For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all those opposed to you shall not be able to gainsay nor withstand.
21:16	And ye shall be delivered up even by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and they shall put some of you to death.
21:17	And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake.
21:18	???
21:19	In your patience possess ye your souls.
21:20	But when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that her desolation is come near.
21:23	But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck, in those days!  For there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath unto this people.
21:24	And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all the nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down by nations, until the times of nations be fulfilled.
21:25	And there shall be signs in sun, and moon, and stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and waves roaring;
21:26	Men fainting for fear, and for expectation of the things which are coming on the world: for the powers of the heavens shall be shaken. 
21:27	And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with great power. 
21:28	And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draws nigh.
21:29	And he spoke to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees; 
21:30	When they already shoot forth, ye see it, and know your own selves that summer is already near.
21:31	So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is near.
21:32	Verily I say unto you, the heaven and the earth shall in no wise pass away, till all things be accomplished 
21:33	The heaven and the earth shall pass away: but my words shall in no wise pass away. 
21:34	And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be weighed down with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and that day come upon you unawares.
21:35	For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of all the earth.
21:36	Watch ye therefore at every season, praying, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that are going to take place.
21:37	And every day he was teaching in the temple; and at night he went out, and lodged on the mountain that is called Olives.
21:38	And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple to hear him. 
22:1	Now the feast of unleavened bread was coming near, which is called the Passover.
22:2	And the chief priests and scribes were seeking how they might kill him; for they feared the people.
22:3	Then Judas, who was surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve, went away,
22:4	And communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might deliver him up to them.
22:5	And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.
22:6	And he consented, and was seeking opportunity to deliver him up to them without tumult.
22:7	Then the day of unleavened bread came, when the Passover must be sacrificed.
22:8	And he [said] unto Peter and [the rest], Go and make ready that we may eat the Passover.
22:9	And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we make ready?
22:10	And he said unto them, Behold, when ye have entered into the city, a man shall meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where into he goes.
22:11	And ye shall say unto the master of the house, The Teacher said unto thee, Where is the lodging, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
22:12	And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready.
22:13	And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the Passover.
22:14	And when the hour was come he reclined, and the twelve apostles with him.
22:15	And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer:
22:16	???
22:17	And he received a cup, and when he had given thanks, he said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves:
22:18	For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.
22:19	And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do for my remembrance.
22:20	And in like manner the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the [new] covenant in my blood, even that which is poured out for you.
22:21	But, behold, the hand of him that betrays me is with me on the table.
22:22	And the Son of man indeed goes, as it hath been determined: but woe unto that man through whom he is betrayed!
22:23	And they began to dispute with themselves, which of them it was that was going to do this thing. 
22:24	And there was also a contention among them, which of them is accounted to be greater.
22:25	And he said unto them, The kings of the nations have lordship over them; and they that have authority over them are called benefactors.
22:26	But ye shall not be so: but he that is the greater among you, let him be as the younger; and he that leads as he that serves.
22:27	For weather is greater- he that reclines at meat, or he that serves?  Is not he that reclines?  But I am in the midst of you as he that serves.
22:28	Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.
22:29	And I appoint unto you even as my Father hath appointed unto me, a kingdom.
22:30	???
22:31	And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded you, that he might sift you as wheat:
22:32	But I entreated for thee, that thy faith may not fail: and once thou hast turned again, establish thy brethren.
22:33	And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison, and to death. 
22:34	And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow at all to-day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knows me.
22:35	???
22:36	???
22:37	???
22:38	???
22:39	And he came out, and went according to his custom to the mountain of Olives, and his disciples also followed him.
22:40	And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray not to enter into temptation.
22:41	And he was separated from them about a stone's throw, and he kneeled down, and prayed, saying 
22:42	Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.
22:43	 And there appeared unto him an angel from heaven, strengthening him.
22:44	And he became in an agony and prayed more earnestly: and his sweat became as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.
22:45	And when he rose up from prayer, he came unto his disciples, and found them sleeping for sorrow, 
22:46	And said unto them, Why sleep ye? Rise and pray, that ye may not enter into temptation.
22:47	And while he yet spoke, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and came near unto Jesus to kiss him.
22:48	But Jesus said unto him, Judas, with a kiss betrays thou the Son of man?
22:49	???
22:50	???
22:51	???
22:52	And Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and the elders, which were come against him, Are ye come out, as against a robber, with swords and staves?
22:53	When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched not forth your hands against me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
22:54	Then they seized him, and led him, and brought him into the high priest's house.  But Peter was following afar off.
22:55	And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the court, and had sat down together, Peter sat in the midst of them. 
22:56	And a certain maid seeing him as he sat towards the light, looked steadfastly upon him, and said, This man also was with him.
22:57	But he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. 
22:58	And after a little while another, seeing him, said, Thou also art one of them.  And Peter said, Man, I am not.
22:59	And after a space of about one hour another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a Galilaean.
22:60	And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou says.  And immediately, while he was yet speaking, the cock crew.
22:61	And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter.  And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.
22:62	And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.
22:63	And the men that held Jesus kept mocking and smiting him.
22:64	And when they had blindfolded him, they kept striking him on the face, and asking him, saying, Prophesy, who is he that smote thee?
22:65	And many other things they kept saying, railing against him.
22:66	And as soon as it was day, the body of elders of the people, and the chief priests and the scribes, was gathered together, and they led him away into their council, saying,
22:67	If thou art the Christ, tell us.  And he said unto them, if I tell you, ye will not at all believe: 
22:68	And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go. 
22:69	From henceforth shall the Son of man be seated on the right hand of the power of God.
22:70	And they all said, Art thou then the Son of God?  And he said unto them, you say it, because I am.
22:71	And they said, what further need have we of testimony?  For we ourselves have heard of his mouth.
23:1	And the whole company arose, and brought him before Pilate.
23:2	And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation, and destroying the law and the prophets, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, and turning away the women and children, saying that he himself is Christ a King.
23:3	And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews?  And he answered him and said, Thou says.
23:4	And Pilate said to the chief priests and the multitudes, I find no fault in this man. 
23:5	And they were urgent, saying, he stirred up the people, teaching throughout all Judaea, having begun from Galilee to this place.
23:6	But when Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean.
23:7	And when he knew that he was from Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him up to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time.
23:8	And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was of a long time desirous to see him, because he had heard many things about him; and was hoping to see some sign done by him. 
23:9	And he questioned him in many words; but he answered him nothing.
23:10	And the chief priests and the scribes stood vehemently accusing him.
23:11	And Herod with his soldiers set him at naught, and mocked him, and arraying him in a gorgeous robe, sent him back to Pilate.
23:12	And Pilate and Herod became friends with each other that very day: for before they were at enmity between themselves.
23:13	And Pilate called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people, and said unto them,
23:14	Ye brought this man unto me, as one that perverted the people: and, behold, I examined him before you, and found no fault in this man of what ye charge against him:
23:15	No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death hath been done by him.
23:16	I will therefore chastise him, and release him.
23:17	(Now he under a necessity to release unto them at every feast one).
23:18	But they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas:
23:19	(one who for a certain insurrection made in the city, and for murder, had been cast into prison.)
23:20	Pilate therefore spoke again to them, wishing to release Jesus.
23:21	But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
23:22	And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath this man done?  I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go.
23:23	But they were urgent with loud voices, asking that he might be crucified.  And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed.
23:24	And Pilate gave sentence that their request should be done.
23:25	And he released unto them him that for insurrection and murder had been cast into prison, whom they were sking for; but Jesus he delivered up to their will.
23:26	And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, that was coming out of the country, and laid on him the cross, to bear it after Jesus.
23:27	And there followed him a great company of the people, and of women, who also were bewailing and lamenting him.
23:28	But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.
23:29	For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that bare not, and the breasts that gave not suck.
23:30	Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.
23:31	For if they do these things in the green tree, what shall be done in the dry?
23:32	And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death.
23:33	And when they were come to the place, which is called the Skull, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left.
23:34	Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.
23:35	And the people stood beholding.  And the rulers also with them scoffed at him, saying, others he saved; let him save himself, if this is Christ, the chosen of God.
23:36	And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar, and saying,
23:37	If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself.
23:38	And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
23:39	And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.
23:40	But the other answering rebuked him, saying, does not thou fear God, because thou art in the same condemnation?
23:41	And we indeed justly; for we receive things worthy of our deeds: but this man did nothing amiss.
23:42	And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comes into thy kingdom.
23:43	And Jesus said unto him, verily I say unto thee, to day thou shalt be with me.
23:44	And it was about the sixth hour, and darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour.
23:45	And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the sanctuary was rent in the midst.
23:46	And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said this, he expired.
23:47	Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, certainly this man was righteous.
23:48	And all the multitude that came together to this sight, when they beheld the things which were done, returned smiting their breasts.
23:49	And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, seeing these things.
23:50	And, behold, a man named Joseph, who was a counsellor, a good man, and a righteous
23:51	(he had not consented to their counsel and deed;) [a man] of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who also himself was looking for the kingdom of God:
23:52	This man went unto Pilate, and asked for the body of Jesus.
23:53	And he took it down, and wrapped it in a linen cloth, and laid it in a tomb that was hewn in stone, wherein no man had ever yet lain.
23:54	And it was the day of the preparation, and the Sabbath was dawning.
23:55	And the women also, which had come with him from Galilee, followed after, and beheld the tomb, and how his body was laid.
23:56	And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments.  And on the Sabbath day they rested according to the commandment.
24:1	But upon the first [day] of the week, at early dawn, they came unto the tomb, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and some others with them.
24:2	And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb.
24:3	And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.
24:4	And it came to pass, while they were perplexed about it, behold two men stood by them in garments that flashed forth.  
24:5	And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye him that lives among the dead?
24:6	He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spoke unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying,
24:7	The Son of man must be delivered up into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.
24:8	And they remembered his words,
24:9	And returned from the tomb, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest.
24:10	Now they Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women with them, which told these things unto the apostles.
24:11	And their statements seemed in their sight as nonsense, and they disbelieved them.
24:12	But Peter arose, and ran unto the tomb; and stooping down, he sees the linen bandages laid by themselves, and departed, wondering to himself at that which was come to pass.
24:13	And, behold, two of them went that very day to a village called Emmaus, sixty stadia distant from Jerusalem.
24:14	And they talked together of all these things which had happened.
24:15	And it came to pass, that, while they communed and questioned together, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.
24:16	But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.
24:17	And he said unto them, What words are these that ye exchange with each other, as ye walk, and are sad of countenance?
24:18	And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, does thou alone sojourn in Jerusalem, and not know the things which are come to pass there in these days?
24:19	And he said unto them, What things?  And they said unto him, the things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:
24:20	And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him up to a sentence of death, and crucified him.
24:21	But we hoped that it had been he, who is going to redeem Israel: yea, and beside all this, today is the third day since these things occurred.
24:22	Yea, and certain women also of our company astonished us, who had been early at the tomb; 
24:23	And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. 
24:24	And some of them which were with us went to the tomb, and found it so, even as the women had said: but him they saw not.
24:25	Then he said unto them, O foolish men, and slow of heart to believe in all that he spoke to you. 
24:26	Was it not necessary for the Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
24:28	And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they were going: and he made as though he would go further.
24:29	But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day has declined.  And he went in to abide with them. 
24:30	And it came to pass, as he reclined with them, he took the bread and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.
24:31	And their eyes were opened, and they recognized him; and he became invisible to them.
24:32	And they said one to another, Was not our heart burning within us, while he talked with us in the way? 
24:33	And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem.  And they found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, saying, 
24:34	The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.
24:35	And they rehearsed the things that happened in the way, and how he became known to them in the breaking of the bread. 
24:36	And as they spoke these things, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and said unto them, Peace be unto you.
24:37	But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had beheld a phantom.
24:38	And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled?  And wherefore do reasonings arise in your hearts?
24:39	Behold my hands and my feet, that I am myself: for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
24:40	???
24:41	And while they still disbelieved for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here anything eatable?
24:42	And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.
24:43	And he took it, and ate before them.
24:44	And he said unto them, 
24:45	These are the words which I spoke unto you, while I was yet with you,
24:46	that thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer, and to rise again from the dead the third day:
24:47	And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations.
